The Project Gutenberg eBook of The best short stories of 1925
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The best short stories of 1925
        and the yearbook of the American short story

Author: Various

Editor: Edward J. O'Brien

Release date: November 24, 2025 [eBook #77328]

Language: English

Original publication: Boston: Small, Maynard & Co, 1926

Credits: Carol Brown, Aaron Adrignola, Tim Lindell and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BEST SHORT STORIES OF 1925 ***




                     THE BEST SHORT STORIES OF 1925




              +----------------------------------------------+
              |            BY EDWARD J. O’BRIEN              |
              |                                              |
              |                                              |
              |  WHITE FOUNTAINS. (_Small, Maynard._) 1917.  |
              |  THE FORGOTTEN THRESHOLD. (_Dutton._) 1919   |
              |  DISTANT MUSIC. (_Small, Maynard._) 1921.    |
              |  THE ADVANCE OF THE AMERICAN SHORT STORY.    |
              |  (_Dodd, Mead._) 1923.                       |
              |                                              |
              |  THE BEST SHORT STORIES OF 1915.             |
              |      (_Small, Maynard._) 1916.               |
              |  THE BEST SHORT STORIES OF 1916.             |
              |      (_Small, Maynard._) 1917.               |
              |  THE BEST SHORT STORIES OF 1917.             |
              |      (_Small, Maynard._) 1918.               |
              |  THE BEST SHORT STORIES OF 1918.             |
              |      (_Small, Maynard._) 1919.               |
              |  THE BEST SHORT STORIES OF 1919.             |
              |      (_Small, Maynard._) 1920.               |
              |  THE BEST SHORT STORIES OF 1920.             |
              |      (_Small, Maynard._) 1921.               |
              |  THE BEST SHORT STORIES OF 1921.             |
              |      (_Small, Maynard._) 1922.               |
              |  THE BEST SHORT STORIES OF 1922.             |
              |      (_Small, Maynard._) 1923.               |
              |  THE BEST SHORT STORIES OF 1923.             |
              |      (_Small, Maynard._) 1924.               |
              |  THE BEST SHORT STORIES OF 1924.             |
              |      (_Small, Maynard._) 1925.               |
              |  THE MASQUE OF POETS. (_Dodd, Mead._) 1918.  |
              |  THE GREAT MODERN ENGLISH STORIES.           |
              |      (_Boni and Liveright._) 1919.           |
              |                                              |
              |                                              |
              |          BY EDWARD J. O’BRIEN AND            |
              |                JOHN COURNOS                  |
              |                                              |
              |  THE BEST BRITISH SHORT STORIES OF 1922.     |
              |      (_Small, Maynard._) 1922.               |
              |  THE BEST BRITISH SHORT STORIES OF 1923.     |
              |      (_Small, Maynard._) 1923.               |
              |  THE BEST BRITISH SHORT STORIES OF 1924.     |
              |      (_Small, Maynard._) 1924.               |
              |  THE BEST BRITISH SHORT STORIES OF 1925.     |
              |      (_Small, Maynard._) 1925.               |
              +----------------------------------------------+




                                   THE
                           BEST SHORT STORIES
                                 OF 1925

                                 AND THE

                        YEARBOOK OF THE AMERICAN
                               SHORT STORY

                                EDITED BY
                            EDWARD J. O’BRIEN

                        [Illustration: colophon]

                                 BOSTON
                        SMALL, MAYNARD & COMPANY
                               PUBLISHERS




Copyright, 1924, by The Atlantic Monthly Company.

Copyright, 1925, by The Boston Transcript Company.

Copyright, 1925, by The Reviewer, The Century Co., Harcourt, Brace,
and Co., The Pictorial Review Company, Harper & Brothers, The Atlantic
Monthly Company, Liberty Weekly, Incorporated, P. F. Collier & Son
Company, The Dial Publishing Company, Inc., and Boni and Liveright, Inc.

Copyright, 1926, by Sandra Alexander, Sherwood Anderson, Barry
Benefield, Konrad Bercovici, Bella Cohen, Charles Caldwell Dobie,
Rudolph Fisher, Katharine Fullerton Gerould, Walter Gilkyson, Ring W.
Lardner, Robert Robinson, Evelyn Scott, May Stanley, Wilbur Daniel
Steele, Milton Waldman, Glenway Wescott, Barrett Willoughby, and Elinor
Wylie.

Copyright, 1926, by Small, Maynard & Company, Inc.

                             Second Printing
                             Third Printing
                             Fourth Printing


                 Printed in the United States of America

                       THE MURRAY PRINTING COMPANY
                            CAMBRIDGE, MASS.

                     THE BOSTON BOOKBINDING COMPANY
                            CAMBRIDGE, MASS.




                                TO ROMER




                      BY WAY OF ACKNOWLEDGMENT AND
                                 REQUEST


Grateful acknowledgment for permission to include the stories and other
material in this volume is made to the following authors and editors:

     To the Editors of _The Boston Evening Transcript_, _The
     Reviewer_, _The Century Magazine_, _The Pictorial Review_,
     _Harper’s Magazine_, _The Atlantic Monthly_, _Liberty_,
     _Collier’s Weekly_, and _The Dial_; and to Messrs.
     Harcourt, Brace, and Company, Messrs. Boni and Liveright,
     Inc., Miss Sandra Alexander, Mr. Sherwood Anderson, Mr.
     Nathan Asch, Mr. Barry Benefield, Mr. Konrad Bercovici,
     Miss Bella Cohen, Mr. Charles Caldwell Dobie, Mr. Rudolph
     Fisher, Mrs. Katharine Fullerton Gerould, Mr. Walter
     Gilkyson, Mr. Manuel Komroff, Mr. Ring W. Lardner, Mr.
     Robert Robinson, Miss Evelyn Scott, Miss May Stanley, Mr.
     Wilbur Daniel Steele, Mr. Milton Waldman, Mr. Glenway
     Wescott, Miss Barrett Willoughby, and Mrs. Elinor Wylie.

I wish to make particular acknowledgments for editorial assistance
to Mrs. W. J. Turner, Miss Katharine Macdonald, and Mr. Francis J.
Hannigan.

In dedicating the present volume to my wife, I wish to record her
invaluable coöperation in making this volume, as well as “The Best
British Short Stories of 1925,” less faulty than it otherwise might
have been during my prolonged illness last summer.

I shall be grateful to my readers for corrections, and particularly for
suggestions leading to the wider usefulness of these annual volumes.
In particular, I shall welcome the receipt from authors, editors and
publishers, of stories printed during the period between October, 1924,
and September, 1925, inclusive, which have qualities of distinction
and yet are not printed in periodicals falling under my regular
attention.

Communications may be addressed to me _Care of Small, Maynard &
Company, 41 Mount Vernon Street, Boston, Mass._

                                                      E. J. O.




                                CONTENTS

                                                              PAGE
    INTRODUCTION. By the Editor                               xiii

    THE GIFT. By Sandra Alexander                                1
                         (From _The Reviewer_)

    THE RETURN. By Sherwood Anderson                            21
                     (From _The Century Magazine_)

    GERTRUDE DONOVAN. By Nathan Asch                            39
                   (From _The Transatlantic Review_)

    GUARD OF HONOR. By Barry Benefield                          53
                     (From _The Pictorial Review_)

    THE BEGGAR OF ALCAZAR. By Konrad Bercovici                  64
                     (From _The Century Magazine_)

    THE LAUGH. By Bella Cohen                                   81
                (From _The Calendar of Modern Letters_)

    THE HANDS OF THE ENEMY. By Charles Caldwell
      Dobie                                                     85
                       (From _Harper’s Magazine_)

    THE CITY OF REFUGE. By Rudolph Fisher                      105
                     (From _The Atlantic Monthly_)

    AN ARMY WITH BANNERS. By Katharine Fullerton
      Gerould                                                  122
                       (From _Harper’s Magazine_)

    COWARD’S CASTLE. By Walter Gilkyson                        148
                     (From _The Atlantic Monthly_)

    HOW DOES IT FEEL TO BE FREE? By Manuel Komroff             167
                     (From _The Atlantic Monthly_)

    HAIRCUT. By Ring Lardner                                   174
                            (From _Liberty_)

    THE ILL WIND. By Robert Robinson                           186
                       (From _Collier’s Weekly_)

    THE OLD LADY. By Evelyn Scott                              195
                           (From _The Dial_)

    OLD MAN LEDGE. By May Stanley                              207
                     (From _The Pictorial Review_)

    SIX DOLLARS. By Wilbur Daniel Steele                       228
                     (From _The Pictorial Review_)

    THE HOME TOWN. By Milton Waldman                           253
                      (From _The London Mercury_)

    FIRE AND WATER. By Glenway Wescott                         270
                       (From _Collier’s Weekly_)

    THE DEVIL DRUM. By Barrett Willoughby                      287
                     (From _The Century Magazine_)

    GIDEON’S REVENGE. By Elinor Wylie                          311
                     (From _The Century Magazine_)

    THE YEARBOOK OF THE AMERICAN SHORT STORY,
        OCTOBER, 1924, TO SEPTEMBER, 1925                      323

      Abbreviations                                            325

      Addresses of Magazines Publishing Short Stories          330

      Biographical Roll of Honor of American Short Stories     334

      Roll of Honor of Foreign Short Stories in American
        Magazines                                              345

      The Best Books of Short Stories                          349

      Volumes of Short Stories Published in the United
        States: An Index                                       351

      Articles on the Short Story in American Magazines:
        An Index                                               355

      Index of Short Stories in Books                          389

          I. American Authors                                  389

         II. British and Irish Authors                         395

        III. Translations                                      402

      Magazine Averages                                        406

      Index of Short Stories Published in American
        Magazines                                              409

          I. American Authors                                  410

         II. British and Irish Authors                         441

        III. Translations                                      446




                              INTRODUCTION


                                    I

Is it, as Henry Adams suggests, a fiction that society educates itself
or aims at a conscious purpose? In Europe at all events, as he points
out, society has not done so. European society at the present time
is old. Its youth was not more conscious than that of the average
man whose character is formed by the blows and punches of fate. But
in America society is young and at least self-conscious. Comparative
peace surrounds it: experience of similarly thinking nations is at its
service. With these advantages can it consciously form a new and finer
civilization within itself, with new values from the experience of the
old European civilization and values, now of doubtful worth? America,
intellectually, is of European descent. Her language, her law, are
not alien to those of the old world. When, therefore, one asks if her
society can educate itself toward a conscious purpose, one must not
answer that question with the experiences of Asiatic civilizations in
mind.

Since 1914, it has been very clear that a new energy has begun to stir
in America. It is as if the mass of the people has begun to realize
itself not as a congregation of settlers, farmers and prospectors,
but as a nation capable of an ideal somewhat different in spirit from
those which, as it can perceive from its newspapers, animate the
nations of Europe. In other words, America has begun to realize that
she is capable of at any rate desiring an independent ideal worthy of
attainment.

It is not in the works of such writers as Emerson, Whitman, Henry
Adams, and Edwin Arlington Robinson, nor in the works of the younger
writers who seek inspiration outside the sphere of American life, that
one finds this realization actively leading American public thought. It
is in such, at first sight, unusual forms of philosophical expression
as acts of law, social customs, and even newspaper articles. There one
hears the voice of the American nation beginning to assert that the old
codes which it inherited from Europe have come under its criticism.
This criticism, one feels, arises from a definite and conscious
comparison of an inherited ideal with one which is being gradually
formulated by the whole nation.

In order to follow an ideal of this particular and, one might say,
personal kind, it is necessary that the nation which seeks after it
should, in the first place, attempt to know itself. One sees that, in
every way, America today tries by self-expression to realize her own
character. In the East, in the West, particularly in the Middle West,
every individual who is not wholly absorbed in making money or in
furthering the material welfare of his country attempts at some time
during his life to say what he thinks of the world as he sees it. His
world is not an old world of traditions. There is no traditional way of
expressing his thoughts about it ready to his hand, nor is every man
a great literary artist. He has had, therefore, to invent a form of
expression that is not too great a tax upon his powers.

Few men or women are capable of sustaining their energies through
the length of a novel or of a work of philosophy, and fewer have the
gift of poetry. It would seem, therefore, that almost of necessity
the American people has adopted the short story as its particular
form of art: not the sketch nor the episodic tale, but a fairly long
and systematically constructed piece of writing in which primarily
it liberates its own feelings, and by which secondarily it tells a
tale. The American short story, therefore, has an immense and peculiar
interest and value. One feels in it the striving of a nation to express
itself, and thereby to come to a knowledge of its own character, in
order completely and consciously to follow an ideal which it hopes to
set before itself.

But whether through the evolutions of human life it is possible to
follow a fixed ideal, whether it is possible for a whole nation
consciously to mould its future, whether even it is possible for a
people to realize its own character clearly enough to be able to impose
a philosophy upon it, only the future can tell. One is inclined
to think that it is impossible, but that does not detract from the
extraordinary interest which the phenomenon of a nation seeking
self-realization arouses.

Whatever the result of America’s conscious attempt at self-education
may be, the record of it, in the form at any rate of the short
story, whether good or bad, will be of the greatest value to future
generations.


                                   II

To repeat what I have said in these pages in previous years, for
the benefit of the reader as yet unacquainted with my standards and
principles of selection, I shall point out that I have set myself the
task of disengaging the essential human qualities in our contemporary
fiction, which, when chronicled conscientiously by our literary
artists, may fairly be called a criticism of life. I am not at all
interested in formulæ, and organized criticism at its best would be
nothing more than dead criticism, as all dogmatic interpretation of
life is always dead. What has interested me, to the exclusion of other
things, is the fresh, living current which flows through the best
American work, and the psychological and imaginative reality which
American writers have conferred upon it.

No substance is of importance in fiction, unless it is organic
substance, that is to say, substance in which the pulse of life
is beating. Inorganic fiction has been our curse in the past, and
bids fair to remain so, unless we exercise much greater artistic
discrimination than we display at present.

The present record covers the period from October, 1924, to September,
1925, inclusive. During this period I have sought to select from the
stories published in American magazines those which have rendered life
imaginatively in organic substance and artistic form. Substance is
something achieved by the artist in every act of creation, rather than
something already present, and accordingly a fact or group of facts in
a story only attains substantial embodiment when the artist’s power
of compelling imaginative persuasion transforms them into a living
truth. The first test of a short story, therefore, in any qualitative
analysis, is to report upon how vitally compelling the writer makes his
selected facts or incidents. This test may be conveniently called the
test of substance.

But a second test is necessary if the story is to take rank above other
stories. The true artist will seek to shape this living substance
into the most beautiful and satisfying form by skilful selection and
arrangement of his materials, and by the most direct and appealing
presentation of it in portrayal and characterization.

The short stories which I have examined in this study, as in previous
years, have fallen naturally into four groups. The first consists of
those stories which fail, in my opinion, to survive either the test of
substance or the test of form. These stories are listed in the yearbook
without comment or qualifying asterisk.

The second group consists of those stories which may fairly claim
that they survive either the test of substance or the test of form.
Each of these stories may claim to possess either distinction of
technique alone, or more frequently, I am glad to say, a persuasive
sense of life in them to which a reader responds with some part of his
own experience. Stories included in this group are indicated in the
yearbook index by a single asterisk prefixed to the title.

The third group, which is composed of stories of still greater
distinction, includes such narratives as may lay convincing claim to a
second reading, because each of them has survived both tests, the test
of substance and the test of form. Stories included in this group are
indicated in the yearbook index by two asterisks prefixed to the title.

Finally, I have recorded the names of a small group of stories
which possess, I believe, the even finer distinction of uniting
genuine substance and artistic form in a closely woven pattern with
such sincerity that these stories may fairly claim a position in
American literature. If all of these stories by American authors were
republished, they would not occupy more space than six or seven novels
of average length. My selection of them does not imply the critical
belief that they are great stories. A year which produced one great
story would be an exceptional one. It is simply to be taken as meaning
that I have found the equivalent of six or seven volumes worthy of
republication among all the stories published during the period under
consideration. These stories are indicated in the yearbook index by
three asterisks prefixed to the title, and are listed in the special
“Rolls of Honor.” In compiling these lists, I have permitted no
personal preference or prejudice to influence my judgment consciously.
Several stories which I dislike personally are to be found on the
“Rolls of Honor.” The general and particular results of my study will
be found explained and carefully detailed in the supplementary part of
this volume.

                                                 EDWARD J. O’BRIEN.

  London.
  November 3, 1925.




                     THE BEST SHORT STORIES OF 1925




NOTE.--The order in which the stories in this volume are printed is
not intended as an indication of their comparative excellence; the
arrangement is alphabetical by authors.




                               THE GIFT[1]

                           By SANDRA ALEXANDER

                          (From _The Reviewer_)


The sun came up around the bend of the river. The top of it, huge
and misshapen, had just cleared the mass of juniper and swamp myrtle
when Annie Sherrod opened the kitchen door and came down the rickety
back steps into the yard. She carried in one hand a bucket of clabber
for the pigs and in the other a tin pail full to the brim with a
stirring of corn meal and sweet milk for the chickens. As she reached
the chicken coop the sun shook away the dark myrtle and gave its red
reflection to the river. The water tugged and pulled it out of shape
as it flowed on by to the sound. The river and the dried mud along its
banks shone brightly, but the woman noticed none of this red glory of
sunrise. She scattered the meal and emptied the sour milk in the pig
trough, and then filled the empty bucket with the dark water and gave
it to the chickens to drink.

The sun had now risen so high that the reflection spread like burnished
copper on the face of the water, and Annie shaded her eyes as she
looked down at the fish trap anchored close to the bank. The fish
trap was made of two hoops of seine and two dug-outs. The hoops were
balanced upon a greased pole between the dugouts. The faintest puff of
wind caused the top hoop to dip down until it was caught by the current
and dragged under. As it came up the opposite hoop was pushed down. The
hoops dipped and turned endlessly in the river current and sometimes
brought up fish. When the hoops reached the top of their circle the
fish fell out and down into the dugouts, sometimes to the right,
sometimes to the left. “Lazy man fishin’” they called the trap on the
river.

There were plenty of fish this morning, silver river herrings, and
Annie gathered them up and carried them back to the house.

She busied herself with breakfast and when it stood smoking hot on the
stove, she went down the hall to a room at the front of the house.
“Henry,” she called, outside the closed door, “it’s time to get
up--brekfast’s ready.” A voice answered her and she went on to the next
room, opened the door and entered.

It was dark in there and the air smelled of stale bedding. Annie
propped up a window and pushed open a broken shutter. The sun threw a
broad streak of light across a bed in the corner which held a sleeping
man. He roused himself, shivered, and threw one protecting arm across
his eyes to shut out the sudden glare. “Can’t you let me be?” he said.
Annie did not look at him: “Brekfast’s done,” she said and went out.

The table stood under the window in the kitchen. She wiped the oilcloth
top with a damp cloth and set it with thick china plates and cups. She
“dished up” the smoking food, filled the cups with coffee and put the
pot back on the stove. Then she sat down at one end of the table and
stared in front of her.

Her brooding face was lifeless in its repose. There was no thought
going on back of the woman’s dulled eyes. She sat, heavy and relaxed,
a little forward in the chair, and stared straight in front of her.
Mechanically she lifted a hand now and then to frighten away the swarms
of flies that hovered over the food before her. The sound of a tapping
stick and carefully placed feet in the hall roused her. She sagged
to her feet and went to the door. A man with a cane in one hand and
the other spread out before him stopped beside her. “Annie,” he said
inquiringly.

“Here I be,” she said, catching hold of his hand to guide him to the
table.

“I smell fish this morning,” the blind man said cheerfully, as he
spread his hands to touch the knife and fork at his place.

“Yes, we got fish.” Annie speared one with a fork and took out the
backbone. She put milk and sugar in his coffee, cut up a piece of
fat pork and put the plate down in front of him. “There you air!” She
helped her own plate and sat down again.

They ate in silence.

Down the hall a door slammed. “Will’s late,” the blind man said.

“Yeah--he wuz drunk agin las’ night!”

The blind man made soft clucking noises, his tongue against his closed
teeth.

Will came through the kitchen, glancing at the table as he went by on
his way to the back porch. There was a sound of water poured in a tin
basin. “Ain’t ther’ a towel ’round here some place?” he called. Annie
got up, took a towel from the cupboard drawer out to him, and came back
to her breakfast. In a little while he came in, sat down between them
and helped himself to food.


                                   II

The two men were brothers, Henry and William Sherrod. The blind man was
stout, his sandy hair thin on his round head. William was slim in build
and the bones of his face prominent. His hair was thick and the color
of Henry’s. His eyes were blue and quick with impatience. Henry’s were
blue and flat with the vacancy of blindness.

Will leaned forward and took another fish from the heaped plate in
front of him.

“Got in purtty late las’ night, didn’t you, Will?” Henry had finished
his breakfast, and sat leaning back in his chair, his pale eyes staring
in the direction of his brother.

Will did not lift his head from his plate. “Uh-huh,” he said.

“Who’d you see up town?” Henry went on.

“Nobody much. I--” he cleared his mouth of the fish bones--“I went to
the movin’ picher place.”

“Oh, you did, did you?” There was an eager interest in Henry’s voice.
He leaned forward and waited for Will to go on. Then he prompted
him: “Ain’t you goin’ to tell us what you saw? Annie here wants to
know--don’t you, Annie?”

Annie roused herself from the stupor she had fallen into. “I ain’t
pertikler,” she said.

Will suddenly scowled at the blind man. He paid no attention to Annie.
“It warn’t so much. Jest one o’ them regler pichers. L’s see--” he ran
his hand through his thick hair in the effort to think. “Thar was a
woman an’ two men--an’--an’ she liked purtty things an’--an’ all. An’
one man was poor an’ tother was rich--so she runned away with him--an’
then he did something crooked--bet on a horse or sumpin like that--an’
so her husban’ come an’ got her. It was like that!”

Henry sighed when Will had finished. “It must er been a real good
picher. Minds me er one I saw onct over to Adamton.”

“Yeah! Everything ’minds you er somethin’ you seen over to Adamton.
It’s right bad you cain’t go back over there.” Henry dropped his head
at the sound of Will’s voice.

Annie had not looked up from her plate or seemed to listen to Will’s
recital, but now she stared straight at him, and under the scorn in her
gaze he hesitated. “You lay off’n Henry,” she said.

“What you got to do with it? You better dry up yerself!” But as she
still stared at him, his eyes wavered and he returned to his breakfast.

Almost paralyzed by this exchange between husband and wife, not because
it was new or the first time he had heard it, but because he so keenly
realized his helplessness, Henry’s hands fumbled with his knife and
fork. They made outlandish noises against his empty plate.

“Have some more fish, Henry?” Annie lowered her voice as she spoke to
him.

“Believe I had a plenty, Annie.”

“Gimme ’nother cup er coffee.” Will held his cup back toward the
stove without turning. Annie filled it for him. She had finished her
breakfast and she went slowly about the kitchen, testing the water in
the iron kettle and scraping the dishes clean. She gathered them into a
pile and carried them to a table nearer the stove.

Henry tilted back his chair and lighted a pipe. Will sucked noisily
at his second cup of coffee, his arms propped on the table, one hand
supporting his head.

“Going to do Four Acre?” Henry asked presently in a voice he meant to
be conciliating.

“Yeah.”

“It sure is goin’ to be a hot day.”

“You’re dam’ right!”

“Can’t yer put it off?” Henry went on.

“Naw!” Will got up and stood with his hands on the back of his chair,
looking down at him. “You got a purtty sof’ snap sittin’ ’round all day
doin’ nothin’.”

“Trade you!” Henry said quickly.

“Like hell, you would!” He gave the chair a sudden push that sent it
against the table. “Whar’s them milk buckets?”

Annie pointed to them and he took the two empty pails and went out.
There was a little space of silence as Annie poured the greasy dish
water out through the open window on the ground, where it ran off in a
rainbow streak down the slope of the yard. “Will oughter milk before
brekfast,” she said to Henry as she hung the pan on its nail.

“Well, it’s purtty hard on him, doing all the work for bothen us.”
Henry shook his head solemnly.

“You can’t help it!” Annie said fiercely. She went through the door
carrying a bucket of scraps--more food for the pigs. When she came
back she swept the kitchen, took the ashes from the cooling stove
and covered the table with a cloth, then she darkened the room and
went out. She swept the two bedrooms, beat the knobs out of the shuck
mattresses and spread them with yellow sheets, yellow from having been
washed in river water. When all this was done she returned to the
kitchen, strained and set away the milk Will had left for her on the
table. She carried it out to the wire-covered box nailed high up on the
porch, to keep away the swarming flies. Then she put on a slat bonnet,
took a knife and basket and went out into the garden.


                                  III

The Sherrod house stood on a rise of ground above the river. The
spring freshets never reached it, not even the famous one of ’98. The
front of the house faced the long red dirt track that led up to the
crossroads, and the back of it looked down on the river. The house
had never been painted, the clapboards had weathered an even gray,
and here and there patches of green moss clung to the roof and the
chimney bricks. Henry and William owned it jointly, together with the
sixty-acre farm on either side of it.

Henry knew nothing of farming. When he was in his teens he had gone
away to work on one of the river steamers. In those days, twenty years
ago, steamers ran from across the sound, and up the river as far as
Jamesville, the town below the Sherrod place. There were no steamboats
on the river now. The railroad had built a long trestle across the
sound and put them all out of business. The old _Plymouth_, that Henry
had gone out on, was lying, a rotting hulk, at Adamton. The boat’s
trip from Adamton across the sound and up the river to Jamesville had
required a day. Then she was tied up at the dock until next morning
when her captain backed her around and headed her downstream and again
across the sound to Adamton. The railroad now hauled the cotton and
tobacco, and an occasional crop of peanuts from Jamesville to Adamton
in three hours.

Henry had been fat even as a young man. He had a jolly laugh and took
life pretty much as he found it. He knew a lot of drummer jokes,
collected from travelers on the _Plymouth_. He told them to the old
folks and to Will whenever he came to the farm to spend a night. Will
listened to them with ill grace and Henry was forced to believe Will
jealous of him. He wooed Will with presents bought in the superior
stores of Adamton, and if he discovered Will was “courting” a town
girl, he stopped going to see her himself. He had a long talk with Will
when the old people died. He said if Will wanted him to he would give
up his job and come home, but Will said he didn’t need any river man
around. So Henry had kept on with the _Plymouth_.

The farm was a lonely place and Will’s fine enthusiasm for farming
by himself soon wore itself out. He decided to get married and went
“courting” Annie Spruill, the daughter of a neighboring farmer. He
drove to her house in a shiny new buggy and a suit of clothes Henry had
bought for him over in Adamton. Will had intended painting the house
and making many improvements when he brought Annie home, but the spring
freshet in the river ruined his corn that year, and afterwards he never
seemed to get around to it.

Annie had been a pretty girl when Will married her. In those days she
had bright brown eyes and black hair, but the eyes dimmed and ceased
to sparkle after a few years on the farm with Will. The work was
heavy, and Will, his disposition never good, fretted with his seeming
ill-luck, rarely provided her with any of the things women like. He had
drunk corn whiskey, and as Annie lost her good looks and became a drab
creature who rarely spoke, he drank worse. His unfaithfulness to her
was known throughout the county.

Annie’s children died at birth. They were thin infants, old beyond the
knowledge of mortals. She had wept noisily for the first and a little
less for the second. She was carrying the third when Henry came home
to stay. A doctor in Adamton had told him he was losing his eyesight.
Will said he had been “kicked out of his job.” Annie was glad to have
him. He never lost his temper and he helped her around the house until
the blindness was upon him. He was resigned and at first made a joke
of his affliction. He sat in his rocking chair, never seeming to care
whether he moved again or not. He told Annie all the drummer jokes and
made her laugh long and loudly. He learned to knit and he sent away to
a mail order house for a fiddle. He taught himself to play “Pop Goes
the Weasel.”

Annie’s third child was born. Henry held it in his arms until the tiny
overburdened heart ceased beating in thumps. He could not see the
age-old little face, nor the coppery spots on its forehead, but he knew
something was wrong.

Doctor White in Jamesville told Will that he and Annie must not have
any more children, and that he was to come to town for treatment. Will
listened to him in sulky silence--and never went.

Farm labor became harder to get. A great many farm hands had gone
north, lured by rumors of higher wages. Will rented out part of the
farm to a negro tenant. This man had a still down in the hollow and
Will bought molasses for him and sold the finished “monkey rum” in
Jamesville. It was only a small business, for Will had no money to buy
off the county officers and run the still on a large scale, but it was
quite big enough to furnish him with all he and his town friends wanted
to drink. Three or four times a week he drove into town with a jug
under the seat of the buggy and, after he had disposed of it, spent the
evening lounging around the drug store and talking to the girls from
the tobacco stemmery. He spent his money buying them silk stockings and
cheap perfume.

During all this time Henry sat on at the farm, moving only when
necessity drove him. He grew stouter. He rarely told a drummer joke;
Annie knew them all, so there was no need. His clothes were worn and
shiny with grease from the food he spilled upon them. He had put his
fiddle away. He told Annie he had heard that people born on the river
came home to die on it.


                                   IV

It was twelve o’clock and Will came in from the field. The perspiration
streamed down his face and the top of his overalls was wet with it.
Annie put dinner on the table. She had cooked a piece of smoked hog
jowl and boiled some collards in the liquor, and there was a pudding of
yellow corn. At Will’s place stood a pitcher of milk, covered with a
cloth to keep the flies out. Will washed his hands and sat down; Henry
was already in his accustomed place. A cat came in and curled its sleek
sides around the table leg. Will kicked at it and the cat jumped in a
great arch through the kitchen door.

“I’m going to kill ’at cat,” he said. No one answered him, no one spoke
throughout the meal.

The kitchen was stifling hot. When Will had finished he carried his
chair out on the porch. A little breeze was stirring, he propped the
chair against the side of the house, sat down and closed his eyes. In
a minute more he was fast asleep. Annie washed the dishes and set the
kitchen to rights. As she crossed the porch on her way to the house she
leaned over and shook him awake: “Ain’t you ever goin’ to work?” she
said.

He stretched himself and stood up: “Tain’t none of yore business, ifn’t
I don’t!” he told her as he crammed his hat on his head and went down
the back steps to the field.

He came in early, long before sunset, and asked for a towel and hot
water. He took the bucket Annie gave him to their bedroom and whistled
as he washed and put on clean clothes. He joined them at supper in his
best suit of clothes and ate his food in a great hurry.

“Goin’ to town again tonight, Will?” Henry asked.

“None er yore business!”

“Well,” Henry said mildly, “you needn’t take a feller’s head off when
he asks you a question.”

Will’s eyes were red as he looked up, “Who ast you to put in? You mind
your own business--if you don’t, you know what’s good for you! I guess
I got a right to go to town when I dam’ please! Who does all the work
aroun’ here--you tell me that----”

“I didn’t mean nothin’,” Henry said.

“No, an’ you better not neither!” Will got up from his place. He turned
toward Annie, “An’ you needn’t leave no light burnin’ for me!” Annie
did not look at him. In a minute or two they heard him drive out of the
yard. He would be gone all night and in the morning would appear, sober
and sleepy, to spend the whole day lying in a stupor on a pallet at the
end of the porch, sleeping away the effects of the raw liquor he had
drunk.

Henry tapped his way out to the porch and sat down in a rocking chair.
When Annie had put up the supper dishes she came out and joined him. It
was cooler out there. The sun had long since gone down and the river
had lost its look of parchedness. The water was black as it hurried by
to the sound. There were black shadows under the myrtle and willows on
the opposite bank, but the trees waved green higher up where the light
struck them. The sky back of them was soft with a scattering of white
clouds. Night flew close to the water. A crane’s broad wings circled
and went on downstream. The frogs began their nightly singing.

Henry’s hands rested on his knees. Annie sat tense and drawn in her
chair, her hands on the arms and her head back against the high, broad
top of it. They were both rocking. Suddenly Henry’s chair ceased
rocking and he turned to Annie.

“You ain’t right well, are you, Annie?”

Annie did not answer him at once and he went on: “Seems to me like you
been ailin’ quite a spell. You don’t never say nothin’, but I kin feel
you moving ’round slow like. What’s the matter with you?” His slow
tones were anxious.

Annie rocked all the harder. “Tain’t nothin’,” she said briefly.

“Well, I’m right glad to hear it. Maybe you need a dost of
quinine--that’ll put you right in a jiffy----”

“It’ll be a long time afore I’m right agin!” Annie said passionately.

The full meaning of it sank into Henry’s mind in the long pause that
followed. He cleared his throat helplessly, and his voice, as he
questioned her, had a quaver in it: “You don’t mean you’re goin’ to--to
have another young ’un?”

“Yes, I do, an’ I wish I was dead! I been thinkin’ I’d better go down
and jump in that river----”

“Now, Annie, don’t talk like that!” Henry put out a hand and felt for
her in the dark. “That kind of talk ain’t right. You know what the
Bible says about takin’ your own life. It ain’t right. You ought not to
even think it----” he lapsed into silence.

“Maybe you made a mistake--maybe it ain’t so,” he said after a little.

“Yes, maybe!” Annie’s voice was bitter.

“Does--does Will know?”

“I ain’t told him, but he knows well enough--” she broke off and
suddenly stood up. “I--I forgot, I ain’t fed the cat.” She went swiftly
into the house. Through the blinds back of him Henry heard her fling
herself down on the bed and smother her sobs in the quilts. He rocked
violently, his fat, helpless hands around the knobs of the armchair.

“It ain’t right! It ain’t right!” He repeated it to himself over and
over.

The stars were out when Annie stole back to her place beside him. The
sky was powdery with them. Crickets chirped in the yard and the frogs
cried loudly out of the swamp. Annie’s chair began to move. At first it
went slowly back and forth and then it struck its gait. Henry’s rocker
kept time to it.

“I been sittin’ here thinkin’ while you was gone, Annie. I been
thinkin’ somethin’ mighty curious--about us--an’ how things is fixed
in this world. It ain’t right, some of it. Now here’s us--Will all
time runnin’ after them girls in town--an’ drinkin’. An’ then there’s
you--you has to work too hard. Will don’t work hardly enough--he reely
ain’t able too--maybe if’n he was to stop drinkin’ he might----”

“He won’t!” Annie interrupted.

“No, I don’t guess he will. It’s a pity. I seen a lot of it up an’ down
the river in the old days--it don’t never lead to no good end. If you
was to have somebody to help do the cookin’--an’ was to go to meetin’
now and then--an’ git some pretty clothes----”

“Huh!” Annie’s rocker stopped. “Where you think we goin’ to get all
them things? I ain’t been to meetin’ in months--that’s how I git to
meetin’!”

“I wasn’t sayin’ you was goin’ to git ’em. I was just thinkin’,”
Henry’s voice rebuked her.

“Huh!” The rocking chair took up its accustomed gait again.

“Maybe--maybe when yore time come--” Henry’s voice went on out of the
darkness, “maybe yore baby would live--and you could raise it up to be
a comfort to you.”

Annie said nothing.

“Then ther’s me. All my life long I took good care of myself. I never
had nothin’ much to do with girls--never drunk much--a toddy now an’
then, that’s all--but look at me?” There was no bitterness in Henry’s
voice. “But here I am--a big lump--good for nothin’--I jest sit aroun’
an’ make a lot of work for you.”

“You’re a sight o’ company, Henry,” Annie interrupted.

“Well, thank you, Annie, but I’ll never be good for nothin’ again.
An’ what I got to look forward to--just tell me that? Tain’t like I
got married an’ had some children--it wouldn’t matter so much then--I
wouldn’t keer--I’d be more resigned like----”

Annie stopped rocking.

Henry went on. “I sometimes sits an’ thinks about it for a good spell.
We don’t know if what the preacher says is true. We ain’t certain
’bout that kingdom up in the sky--leastways I ain’t----” Henry paused
uncertainly. “It may be agin’ the Scripters, but sometimes I think all
we got is right here on the earth--an’ it don’t seem right that some of
us gits so little.”

Annie sat still under the weight of it. “No, it don’t, Henry,” she said
at last.

“I lived pretty good. I didn’t miss much when I was on the river--but I
wish I’d got married. I wish I’d got a boy or girl to take keer of me
now.” He heaved a deep sigh. “Well, it’s like that--but don’t guess it
does any good to talk about it much.”

“I never knowed you cared nothin’ ’bout children,” Annie’s voice held a
wondering interest.

“No, I don’t reckon you did. I ain’t never talked about it to nobody
before.”

There was a long pause broken only by the creak of the boards under the
two swaying chairs.

“Henry,” Annie began again, and her voice was solemn “if ’n I was to
take keer of myself--same as Doctor White tole me last time--drink a
lot of milk and let some of the heavy work go--do you ’spose this baby
what’s comin’ would live?”

“Maybe it would, Annie----”

She leaned forward and touched him on the arm. “An’ if ’n it does
live, Henry,” she said in sudden excitement, “it’s goin’ to _be yore
chile_----”

Henry stopped rocking. “What you mean, Annie?”

“I mean I’m goin’ to give it to you--to grow up an’ be a comfort to
you. It’s going to be named Henry Sherrod--an’ you is goin’ to raise
it----”

“But how can you do that, Annie--you can’t give Will’s child away?”

“Can’t I?” the same scornful laugh was in Annie’s voice. “Will hadn’t
ought to have no children--the doctor done said so--an’ anyway he
shan’t tech it----”

“But what’ll he say?”

“He won’t say noth’n--you leave that to me!”

“But look here, Annie,” Henry leaned toward her in the darkness, his
voice betraying his earnestness, “supposen you did--people would think
it kinder queer----”

“Let ’em! Nobody never comes down here no more. When he gits big we’ll
go away----”

“Where’ll we go?”

“I dunno--some place!” Annie leaned back, relaxed. Her voice was full
of ease and happiness. “We’ll go away all right. Some place where
there’s movin’ pichers an’ ’lectric lights. He kin go to school--pay
school. I ain’t goin’ to sen’ my chile to no free school! Maybe he’ll
have a tobacco warehouse when he gits grown----”

“Maybe he’ll be captain of a steamboat----” Henry’s voice took up the
chant.

“Yes, an’ we’ll have a parlor an’ a organ----”

“Maybe he’ll read the newspaper to me----” Henry’s voice was wistful.

Once more the rockers rocked in cadence. It was cooler now, a little
wind blew from across the river and brought the steady “flop flop” of
the fish trap as it dipped down in the current.

Henry loosed himself from the dream first. “It’s gettin’ kinder late,”
he said. “I reckon we all better be gettin’ to bed.”

Annie drew a long breath. “Maybe it won’t live,” she said.

“Maybe so,” Henry too seemed to have lost interest. He shuffled across
the porch and through the doorway, the tap of his stick preceding him
down the hall to his room.

Annie sat on, her hands gripped tightly together in her lap. “Oh, God,”
she prayed, “I got to have somethin’--I got to have somethin’--”


                                   V

October was on the river. Swamp maples flaunted a blare of color as far
as eye could reach. The slim dagger leaves of the willows, already
yellow, fell to eddy in the current before the river swept them away.
Pokeberries were as black as ink. Green holly was swelling, turning
red for winter. Up in the bare branches of the gum trees mistletoe, in
round full bunches, swayed with every passing wind, the milky berries
gleaming against gray-green leaves.

Annie Sherrod was jellying. She stood over the kitchen table pouring
the crimson juice of wild grapes into tumblers and sealing them with
round pieces of white paper dipped in rum and white of egg.

Propped against the door in a split bottom chair, Henry was skimping
through the strains of “Pop Goes the Weasel,” on his fiddle. His head
was bent low, only the thin, reddish hair brushed carefully across the
top was visible to Annie as she looked across at him.

“It sure is gran’ jelly!” she told him.

Henry lowered the fiddle. “I can tell that jest by smellin’,” he said.

Annie wiped her hands on her big checked apron. “I’m goin’ to git you
some in a saucer to taste in a minute. I never did see the beat of it
for jellyin’. Most times you has to wait ’till it gits cole--or set it
in the sun--but this here--” She dug her fingers in the cooling stuff
and lifted a mass of it high. It dropped with a soft “slosh,” heard
plainly across the room. Annie laughed, “Did you hear it?” she said.

“Sure did!”

“I got nine glasses,” Annie went on. “I aim to pick some more grapes
next week an’ do up a even dozen ’fore I stops.”

Henry returned to his fiddling. The kitchen glowed in the afternoon
light. The stove shone red through the cracks and the kettle on it
poured out its song of steam. There was a red cloth on the eating table
and a bunch of goldenrod stuck in a tumbler decorating the center of
it. Over all, hung the rich, spicy aroma of the fox grapes.

Annie brought a saucer half full of jelly over to Henry.

“Here, taste it!” She filled a spoon and put it in his hand. She stood
over him as he sampled it, her hands akimbo on her hips.

“Um----” Henry smacked his lips noisily. “It sure is good stuff!”

“Tomorro’ is Sattiday. You an’ me is goin’ to hitch up and drive to
town right after brekfast and do some tradin’ at Latham’s. I already
done washed your other ves’--it was terrible greasy. You got to stop
dribblin’ things on yourself, Henry Sherrod. If n’ you don’t----”
Annie’s voice was mocking, she threatened him with a flourish of the
now empty saucer, “if n’ you don’t I’m goin’ to tie you up in one er my
apruns!” She threw back her head and laughed.

“Huh! Huh!” Henry laughed with her.

“You all seem mighty happy in here.” Will stood in the doorway. He
carried his gun slung across his shoulder.

The laughter stopped in mid-air. Henry returned to fingering his
fiddle. Annie picked up the tray of jelly glasses and carried them out
on the back porch, passing Will in the doorway, where he grudgingly
made way for her. Coming back she took off her apron and, smoothing her
new calico dress down over her full hips, got out the big pasteboard
box she used for sewing.

All this time Will stood glowering in the doorway. No one had spoken to
him. He seemed uncertain what to do, but as Annie fitted on her thimble
and lifted a tiny shirt from the garments in the box, and began to
stitch with fine stitches upon it, he turned and banged the door behind
him.

“Huh!” Annie laughed, “Will don’t feel right comfortable ’roun’ me no
more. He ain’t forgot that piece er my mind I give him----”

“You best not be too hard on him, Annie,” Henry lowered his fiddle.

“If that ain’t jes’ like you, Henry Sherrod! Now you takin’ up for
Will!”

“No, I ain’t,” Henry protested.

“It’ll do him good. I notice he’s been stayin’ home pretty regular
nights lately.”

“Yes, he has, an’ it’s a good sign----”

“Time’ll tell.”

Annie stitched on in silence. The needle moved methodically in and
out. Presently she began to hum under her breath. Then she interrupted
herself: “Henry,” she said, “why is it ducks’ eggs don’t bring as much
as hens’ eggs, can you tell me that?”

“Seems to me you ought to git more for ’em.”

“Well, you don’t! I got a lot of ’em, too, but they don’t bring much.
I believe I’m goin’ to do all my cookin’ with duck eggs and sell every
one of them hen eggs----”

“That would be a good thing to do----”

“Tomorro’ I aim to buy a cake of that pink soap to the drug store. It’s
real pretty----”

Henry nodded his head at her. He was busy with the fiddle again.


                                   VI

The river was rising. Already the banks were lost by the engulfing
water. The fish trap had been hauled high up the slope of the yard
out of harm’s way. Myrtle and sassafras drowned, while the topmost
branches of the willows, heavy with raindrops, dipped in the ever
rising flood. It was a sign of spring.... The river roared through its
channel and every day a broader expanse of water covered the swamp
bottoms and flowed sullenly outward over the young corn planted in the
bottom lands. Wild things sought higher land. The surface of the water
bore strange fruit. Here an old log, turning over and over, on its way
downstream, and there a young tree, uprooted and swept along, its faint
green leaves half submerged in the red flood. A chicken coop rode its
strangely dignified way downstream.

Water cut off the Sherrod farm from the highroad. Will had taken
the horse and buggy and escaped to town. He gave as his excuse that
somebody had to tell Doctor White to come out at the end of the week.

Rain set in again the night Annie’s son was born. It started at supper
time. Cold fingers tapped on all the windowpanes. Aunt Julia, the
negro midwife, climbed the attic stairs and stuffed rags in all the
broken windowpanes. In the intervals when she could draw her breath a
little more easily, Annie lay and listened to it. She was afraid. She
was horribly afraid the doctor wouldn’t get there in time. She asked
continually if they had not heard him drive into the yard. “Jes’ de
win’, honey!” the old negro woman would reply, placing her wrinkled
brown hand on Annie’s tossed hair. “Yo’ res’ easy, he’ll sho’ be here
bimeby.”

Henry sat outside the door and heard her cries. He wrung his soft,
helpless hands. Tears ran down and splashed on his clean coat front,
the coat Annie had washed for him just a few days before.

The old woman moved about the room, placing basins and folding cloths,
she trimmed the lamp and put it close beside the bed where it would
be most needed. She tested the water in the big kettle on the hearth,
brought in pine logs to feed the ravenous fire, and then eased her
rheumatic old body into the low rocker beside Annie.

“Mammy,” Annie reached out and clutched her with straining fingers,
“don’t you reckon the doctor will be gittin’ here purtty soon now--Will
must er told him how bad I needed him----”

“Yes, honey, he’ll come. Jes’ you res’ easy now. Hole yore breaf when
you feels the pains--hole yore breaf and bear down----”

“He ain’t comin’--I know he ain’t!” Annie wailed. “Will ain’t never
told him!”

This went on for hours, Annie wailing and begging for the doctor and
the old woman comforting her as best she could. Henry alternately dozed
and wrung his hands in the cold outside the door. Toward morning Annie
suddenly lifted up her voice and called him:

“Yes, Annie. He’s coming--Will sure told him----”

“Henry, you listen to me--I don’t care no more. _I don’t care if he
gits here or not_, but I want you to promise me that if ’n’ I dies Will
don’t lay hand on this child--you promise?”

“You ain’t goin’ die, Annie----”

“Promise!”

“I--I promise.”

Annie lay down quietly. “I’m goin’ to be all right now--I ain’t goin’
to holler no more----” But even as she spoke the final agony came.
“Help!” she cried in a voice that brought Henry to his feet and the old
woman scuffling across the room....


                                  VII

The river began to go down the third day after Annie’s son was born. It
was a good sign, the old colored woman said, and she said, too, that
Annie’s baby was the finest baby in the world. Annie lay and listened
to her with a smile. She uncovered the plump little body and saw for
herself that it was perfect. She lay smiling as she nursed it at her
breast.

This child would live.... She had given it to Henry--God couldn’t let
it die like the others....

Will was still in town, and the doctor had not come; there was no need
now, Annie and the baby were both doing well. Henry tapped up and down
with his stick, a smile always hovering about his soft lips.

“If I just could see him.” He sat with the child in his lap. “If the
Lord would just give in once and let me see him, I wouldn’t never ask
for nothin’ else.”

Annie raised herself in the bed on one elbow and lay looking at them.

“He’s like you, Henry, mor’n he is like Will.”

“He’s goin’ to be a big man,” Henry said. The child’s curling fingers
clung tightly to his thumb. It was night. Aunt Julia nodded in the
slat-bottomed rocker before the fireplace....

“I’m goin’ give him pot-licker an’ black-eyed peas--make him grow----”
Annie crooned, her fingers poking the baby under the arm. It gurgled
and they both laughed. “He called yore name, Henry.” Annie prepared to
lie down again in bed.

“I’ll betcher he’s smilin’, ain’t he, Annie?”

“You know he ain’t, he’s too little yit--yessir, his mammy’s goin’ to
give this baby pot-licker an’ peas----”

“Hold the lamp here, Aunt Julia,” Henry called. “We got to see what
this baby’s doin’.”

The old woman came to herself with a start and rubbed her eyes, “Sho’
is smilin’--it’s de bes’ young un----” She pattered over for the lamp,
lifted off the shield of cardboard and brought it close to the bed.

“Look, Annie, ain’t I right?”

Annie raised herself once more. “Hold it closer, Mammy.”

“Gwine burn my chile,” the old woman grumbled as she obeyed.

“No, we ain’t, the idea of such a thing,” Annie half laughed, and then
she drew herself quickly higher up in the bed and leaned closer to the
baby. “Look, Mammy, what makes him do like that?”

“Do lak whut?”

Annie passed her hand rapidly across the child’s face. “He don’t close
his eyes like he ought when I do like that!” There was the beginning of
panic in Annie’s voice.

“Bless God Almighty!” The woman put down the lamp and lifted the child
from Henry’s lap. It wailed feebly at being so suddenly disturbed.

“What’s the matter with its eyes?” Annie’s voice was shrill with fear.
“Tell me! Make her tell--” she appealed to Henry.

Henry struggled to his feet, his knees grown suddenly weak and
unresponsive. He clutched at the woman’s shoulder. “What is it? What’s
wrong with that baby’s eyes?” he demanded in a choked whisper.

The old colored woman held the child against her breast. She made no
effort to avoid Henry’s hand.

“What is it?” Annie cried again.

The woman shook off Henry’s hand and drew herself upright. “Dis chile,”
she said with strange dignity, “is bline.”

“Blind!” Annie screamed. “Tain’t so--you’re lying! ’Tain’t so,
Henry----”

“No, I ain’t tellin’ no lie. Dis chile is bline----”

As she spoke the child’s thin wails filled the room. She clutched it
again to her flat breast, hushing its cries against her.

“No! No! I won’t have it blind----”

“Hush, honey, don’t you carry on so. Yo’ got to git yo’ stren’th
back.” She attempted to push Annie down upon the bed.

“I don’t care! I don’t care!” Annie evaded her. She struggled to
her knees and sat swaying back and forth, her hands clutching in
desperation at the mass of tangled hair that fell about her face.

Henry had fallen back into his chair and now he sat, his fat hands
twisting and untwisting about the arms of it, his loose mouth uttering
words that died away before they passed his lips. The old woman carried
the child across the room. She wrapped it in a piece of blanket and
seated herself in the slat-bottomed rocker as before. Slowly she rocked
back and forth, patting the little round back with her skinny brown
hand. “Hush, chile, go to sleep,” she crooned to it.

Slower and slower went the rocker. Annie’s cries had ceased. Henry’s
head had dropped upon his breast ... his hands were still. A log fell
apart on the hearth. The old woman did not get up to replace it. The
tick of the clock on the mantelpiece was the only sound in the room.
They slept.... They slept the peace of exhaustion ... the peace of
acceptance.


FOOTNOTES:

     [1] Copyright, 1925, by The Reviewer.
         Copyright, 1926, by Sandra Alexander.




                              THE RETURN[2]

                          By SHERWOOD ANDERSON

                      (From _The Century Magazine_)


Eighteen years. Well, he was driving a good car, an expensive roadster,
he was well clad, a rather solid fine-looking man, not too heavy. When
he had left the Middle-Western town to go live in New York City he was
twenty-two, and now, on his way back there, he was forty. He drove
toward the town from the east, stopping for lunch at another town ten
miles away.

When he went away from Caxton, after his mother died, he used to write
letters to friends at home, but after several months the replies began
to come with less and less frequency. On the day when he sat eating his
lunch at a small hotel in the town ten miles east of Caxton he suddenly
thought of the reason, and was ashamed. “Am I going back there on this
visit for the same reason I wrote the letters?” he asked himself. For a
moment he thought he might not go on. There was still time to turn back.

Outside, in the principal business street of the town, people were
walking about. The sun shone warmly. Although he had lived for so many
years in New York, he had always kept, buried away in him somewhere, a
hankering for his own country. All the day before he had been driving
through the eastern Ohio country, crossing many small streams, running
down through small valleys, seeing the white farmhouses set back from
the road, and the big red barns.

The elders were still in bloom along the fences, boys were swimming in
a creek, the wheat had been cut, and now the corn was shoulder-high.
Everywhere the drone of bees; in patches of woodland along the road a
heavy, mysterious silence.

Now, however, he began thinking of something else. Shame crept over
him. “When I first left Caxton, I wrote letters back to my boyhood
friends there, but I wrote always of myself. When I had written a
letter telling what I was doing in the city, what friends I was making,
what my prospects were, I put, at the very end of the letter, perhaps,
a little inquiry. ‘I hope you are well. How are things going with you?’
Something of that sort.”

The returning native--his name was John Holden--had grown very uneasy.
After eighteen years it seemed to him he could see, lying before him,
one of the letters written eighteen years before when he had first
come into the strange Eastern city. His mother’s brother, a successful
architect in the city, had given him such and such an opportunity: he
had been at the theater to see Mansfield as _Brutus_, he had taken
the night boat upriver to Albany with his aunt; there were two very
handsome girls on the boat.

Everything then must have been in the same tone. His uncle had given
him a rare opportunity, and he had taken advantage of it. In time
he had also become a successful architect. In New York City there
were certain great buildings, two or three skyscrapers, several huge
industrial plants, any number of handsome and expensive residences,
that were the products of his brain.

When it came down to the scratch, John Holden had to admit that his
uncle had not been excessively fond of him. It had just happened that
his aunt and uncle had no children of their own. He did his work in
the office well and carefully, had developed a certain rather striking
knack for design. The aunt had liked him better. She had always tried
to think of him as her own son, had treated him as a son. Sometimes she
called him son. Once or twice, after his uncle died, he had a notion.
His aunt was a good woman, but sometimes he thought she would rather
have enjoyed having him, John Holden, go in a bit more for wickedness,
go a little on the loose, now and then. He never did anything she had
to forgive him for. Perhaps she hungered for the opportunity to forgive.

Odd thoughts, eh? Well, what was a fellow to do? One had but the one
life to live. One had to think of oneself.

Botheration! John Holden had rather counted on the trip back to Caxton,
had really counted on it more than he realized. It was a bright summer
day. He had been driving for days over the mountains of Pennsylvania,
through New York State, through eastern Ohio. Gertrude, his wife, had
died during the summer before, and his one son, a lad of twelve, had
gone away for the summer to a boys’ camp in Vermont.

The idea had just come to him. “I’ll drive the car along slowly through
the country, drinking it in. I need a rest, time to think. What I
really need is to renew old acquaintances. I’ll go back to Caxton and
stay several days. I’ll see Herman and Frank and Joe. Then I’ll go
call on Lillian and Kate. What a lot of fun, really!” It might just
be that when he got to Caxton, the Caxton ball team would be playing
a game, say with a team from Yerington. Lillian might go to the game
with him. It was in his mind faintly that Lillian had never married.
How did he know that? He had heard nothing from Caxton for many years.
The ball game would be in Heffler’s field, and he and Lillian would go
out there, walking under the maple trees along Turner Street, past the
old stave factory, then in the dust of the road, past where the sawmill
used to stand, and on into the field itself. He would be carrying a
sunshade over Lillian’s head, and Bob French would be standing at the
gate where you went into the field and charging the people twenty-five
cents to see the game.

Well, it would not be Bob; his son perhaps. There would be something
very nice in the notion of Lillian’s going off to a ball game that way
with an old sweetheart. A crowd of boys, women and men, going through a
cattle gate into Heffler’s field, tramping through the dust, young men
with their sweethearts, a few gray-haired women, mothers of boys who
belonged to the team, Lillian and he sitting in the rickety grandstand
in the hot sun.

Once it had been--how they had felt, he and Lillian, sitting there
together! It had been rather hard to keep the attention centered on
the players in the field. One couldn’t ask a neighbor, “Who’s ahead
now, Caxton or Yerington?” Lillian’s hands lay in her lap. What white,
delicate, expressive hands they were! Once--that was just before he
went away to live in the city with his uncle and but a month after
his mother died--he and Lillian went to the ball field together at
night. His father had died when he was a young lad, and he had no
relatives left in the town. Going off to the ball field at night was
maybe a risky thing for Lillian to do--risky for her reputation if
any one found it out--but she had seemed willing enough. You know how
small-town girls of that age are?

Her father owned a retail shoe store in Caxton and was a good,
respectable man; but the Holdens--John’s father had been a lawyer.

After they got back from the ball field that night--it must have
been after midnight--they went to sit on the front porch before her
father’s house. He must have known. A daughter cavorting about half
the night with a young man that way! They had clung to each other
with a sort of queer, desperate feeling neither understood. She did
not go into the house until after three o’clock, and went then only
because he insisted. He hadn’t wanted to ruin her reputation. Why, he
might have---- She was like a little frightened child at the thought of
his going away. He was twenty-two then, and she must have been about
eighteen.

Eighteen and twenty-two are forty. John Holden was forty on the day
when he sat at lunch at the hotel in the town ten miles from Caxton.

Now, he thought, he might be able to walk through the streets of Caxton
to the ball park with Lillian with a certain effect. You know how it
is. One has to accept the fact that youth is gone. If there should turn
out to be such a ball game and Lillian would go with him, he would
leave the car in the garage and ask her to walk. One saw pictures of
that sort of thing in the movies--a man coming back to his native
village after twenty years; a new beauty taking the place of the beauty
of youth--something like that. In the spring the leaves on maple trees
are lovely, but they are even more lovely in the fall--a flame of
color; manhood and womanhood.

After he had finished his lunch John did not feel very comfortable.
The road to Caxton--it used to take nearly three hours to travel the
distance with a horse and buggy, but now, and without any effort, the
distance could be made in twenty minutes.

He lit a cigar and went for a walk not in the streets of Caxton, but
in the streets of the town ten miles away. If he got to Caxton in the
evening, just at dusk, say, now----

With an inward pang John realized that he wanted darkness, the
kindliness of soft evening lights. Lillian, Joe, Herman, and the rest.
It had been eighteen years for the others as well as for himself. Now
he had succeeded, a little, in twisting his fear of Caxton into fear
for the others, and it made him feel somewhat better; but at once he
realized what he was doing and again felt uncomfortable. One had to
look out for changes, new people, new buildings, middle-aged people
grown old, youth grown middle-aged. At any rate, he was thinking of
the other now; he wasn’t, as when he wrote letters home eighteen years
before, thinking only of himself. “Am I?” It was a question.

An absurd situation, really. He had sailed along so gaily through upper
New York State, through western Pennsylvania, through eastern Ohio. Men
were at work in the fields and in the towns, farmers drove into towns
in their cars, clouds of dust arose on some distant road, seen across a
valley. Once he had stopped his car near a bridge and gone for a walk
along the banks of a creek where it wound through a wood.

He was liking people. Well, he had never before given much time to
people, to thinking of them and their affairs. “I hadn’t time,” he
told himself. He had always realized that, while he was a good enough
architect, things move fast in America. New men were coming on. He
couldn’t take chances of going on forever on his uncle’s reputation. A
man had to be always on the alert. Fortunately, his marriage had been a
help. It had made valuable connections for him.

Twice he had picked up people on the road. There was a lad of sixteen
from some town of eastern Pennsylvania, working his way westward toward
the Pacific coast by picking up rides in cars--a summer’s adventure.
John had carried him all of one day and had listened to his talk with
keen pleasure. And so this was the younger generation. The boy had nice
eyes and an eager, friendly manner. He smoked cigarettes, and once,
when they had a puncture, he was very quick and eager about changing
the tire. “Now, don’t you soil your hands, Mister; I can do it like a
flash,” he said, and he did. The boy said he intended working his way
overland to the Pacific coast, where he would try to get a job of some
kind on an ocean freighter, and that, if he did, he would go on around
the world. “But do you speak any foreign languages?” The boy did not.
Across John Holden’s mind flashed pictures of hot Eastern deserts,
crowded Asiatic towns, wild half-savage mountain countries. As a young
architect, and before his uncle died, he had spent two years in foreign
travel, studying building in many countries; but he said nothing of
this thought to the boy. Vast plans entered into with eager boyish
abandon, a world tour undertaken as he, when a young man, might have
undertaken to find his way from his uncle’s house in East Eighty-first
Street downtown to the Battery. “How do I know--perhaps he will do it,”
John thought. The day in company with the boy had been very pleasant,
and he had been on the alert to pick him up again the next morning; but
the boy had gone on his way, had caught a ride with some earlier riser.
Why hadn’t John invited him to his hotel for the night? The notion
hadn’t come to him until too late.

Youth, rather wild and undisciplined, running wild, eh? I wonder why I
never did it, never wanted to do it.

If he had been a bit wilder, more reckless--that night, that time when
he and Lillian--“It’s all right being reckless with yourself, but when
some one else is involved, a young girl in a small town, you yourself
lighting out”--He remembered sharply that on the night, long before, as
he sat with Lillian on the porch before her father’s house his hand--It
had seemed as though Lillian, on that evening, might not have objected
to anything he wanted to do. He had thought--well, he had thought of
the consequences. Women must be protected by men, all that sort of
thing. Lillian had seemed rather stunned when he walked away, even
though it was three o’clock in the morning. She had been rather like a
person waiting at a railroad station for the coming of a train. There
is a blackboard, and a strange man comes out and writes on it, “Train
Number 287 has been discontinued”--something like that.

Well, it had been all right, everything had been all right.

Later, four years later, he had married a New York woman of good
family. Even in a city like New York, where there are so many people,
her family had been well known. They had connections.

After marriage, sometimes, it is true, he had wondered. Gertrude used
to look at him sometimes with an odd light in her eyes. That boy he
picked up in the road--once during the day when he said something to
the boy, the same queer look came into his eyes. It would be rather
upsetting if one knew that the boy had purposely avoided him next
morning. There had been Gertrude’s cousin. Once, after his marriage,
John heard a rumor that Gertrude had wanted to marry that cousin, but
of course he had said nothing to her. Why should he have? She was his
wife. There had been, he had heard, a good deal of family objection to
the cousin. He was reputed to be wild, a gambler and drinker.

Once the cousin came to the Holden apartment at two in the morning,
drunk and demanding that he be allowed to see Gertrude, and she slipped
on a dressing-gown and went down to him. That was in the hallway of the
apartment, downstairs, where almost any one might have come in and seen
her. As a matter of fact, the elevator boy and the janitor did see her.
She had stood in the hallway below talking for nearly an hour. What
about? He had never asked Gertrude directly, and she had never told him
anything. When she came upstairs again and had got into her bed, he lay
in his own bed trembling, but remained silent. He had been afraid that
if he spoke he might say something rude; better keep still. The cousin
had disappeared. John had a suspicion that Gertrude later supplied him
with money. He went out West somewhere.

Now Gertrude was dead. She had always seemed very well, but suddenly
she was attacked by a baffling kind of slow fever that lasted nearly a
year. Sometimes she seemed about to get better, and then suddenly the
fever grew worse. It might be that she did not want to live. What a
notion! John had been at the bedside with the doctor when she died. It
was at night, and as the boy was asleep, he was not called. There was
something of the same feeling he had had that night of his youth when
he went with Lillian to the ball field, an odd sense of futility, of
inadequacy. There was no doubt that in some subtle way both women had
accused him.

Of what? There had always been, in some vague, indefinable way, a kind
of accusation in the attitude toward him of his uncle, the architect,
and of his aunt. They had left him their money, but---- It was as though
the uncle had said, as though Lillian during that night long ago had
said----

Had they all said the same thing, and was Gertrude his wife saying it
as she lay dying? A smile. “You have always taken such good care of
yourself, haven’t you, John dear? You have observed the rules. You have
taken no chances for yourself or the others.” She had actually said
something of that sort to him once in a moment of anger.


                                   II

In the small town ten miles from Caxton there wasn’t any park to
which a man could go to sit. If one stayed about the hotel, some one
from Caxton might come in. “Hello, what are you doing here?” It would
be inconvenient to explain: “I didn’t want to go to Caxton in the
daylight. I want the kindliness of evening light for myself and the
people I may see there.”

John Holden’s boy--he was but twelve--one might say his character had
not begun to form yet. One felt in him sometimes a sort of unconscious
and casual selfishness, an unawareness of others, a rather unhealthy
sharpness about getting the best of others. It was a thing that should
be corrected in him and at once. John Holden had got himself into a
small panic. “I must write him a letter at once. Such a habit gets
fixed in a boy and then in the man, and it cannot later be shaken
off. There are such a lot of people living in the world! Every
man and woman has his own point of view. To be civilized, really,
is to be aware of the others, their hopes, their gladnesses, their
disillusionments in life.”

John Holden was now walking along a residence street of a small Ohio
town composing in fancy a letter to his son in the boys’ camp up in
Vermont. He was a man who wrote to his son every day. “I think a man
should,” he told himself. “One should remember that now the boy has no
mother.”

He had come to an outlying railroad station. It was neat, with grass
and flowers growing in a round bed in the very center of a lawn. Some
man, the station agent and telegraph operator perhaps, passed him and
went inside the station. John followed him in. On the wall of the
waiting room there was a framed copy of the timetable, and he stood
studying it. A train went to Caxton at five. Another train came from
Caxton and passed through the town he was now in at seven-forty-three,
the seven-nineteen out of Caxton. The man in the small business section
of the station opened a sliding panel and looked at him. The two men
just stared at each other without speaking, and then the panel was slid
shut again.

John looked at his watch. Two-twenty-eight. At about six he could drive
over to Caxton and dine at the hotel there. After he had dined, it
would be evening, and people would be coming into the main street.

The seven-nineteen would come in. When John was a lad, sometimes, he,
Joe, Herman, and often several other lads climbed on the front of the
baggage- or mail-car and stole a ride to the very town he was now in.
What a thrill, crouched down in the gathering darkness on the platform
as the train ran the ten miles, the car rocking from side to side! When
it got a little dark, in the fall or spring, the fields beside the
track were lighted up when the fireman opened his fire-box to throw in
coal. Once John saw a rabbit running along in the glare of light beside
the track. He could have reached down and caught it with his hand. In
the neighboring town the boys went into saloons and played pool and
drank beer. They could depend upon catching a ride back home on the
local freight that got to Caxton at about ten-thirty. On one of the
adventures John and Herman got drunk, and Joe had to help them into an
empty coal car and later get them out at Caxton. Herman got sick, and
when they were getting off the freight at Caxton, he stumbled and came
very near falling under the wheels of the moving train. John wasn’t as
drunk as Herman. When the others weren’t looking, he had poured several
of the glasses of beer into a spittoon. In Caxton he and Joe had to
walk about with Herman for several hours, and when John finally got
home, his mother was still awake and was worried. He had to lie to her.
“I drove out into the country with Herman, and a wheel broke. We had to
walk home.” The reason Joe could carry his beer so well was because he
was German. His father owned the town meat market, and the family had
beer on the table at home. No wonder it did not knock him out as it did
Herman and John.

There was a bench at the side of the railroad station, in the shade,
and John sat there for a long time--two hours, three hours. Why hadn’t
he brought a book? In fancy he composed a letter to his son and in
it he spoke of the fields lying beside the road outside the town of
Caxton, of his greeting old friends there, of things that had happened
when he was a boy. He even spoke of his former sweetheart, of Lillian.
If he now thought out just what he was going to say in the letter,
he could write it in his room at the hotel over in Caxton in a few
minutes without having to stop and think what he was going to say. You
can’t always be too fussy about what you say to a young boy. Really,
sometimes, you should take him into your confidence, into your life,
make him a part of your life.

It was six-twenty when John drove into Caxton and went to the hotel,
where he registered, and was shown to a room. On the street as he
drove into town he saw Billy Baker, who, when he was a young man, had
a paralyzed leg that dragged along the sidewalk when he walked. Now
he was getting old; his face seemed wrinkled and faded, like a dried
lemon, and his clothes had spots down the front. People, even sick
people, live a long time in small Ohio towns. It is surprising how
they hang on.

John had put his car, of a rather expensive make, into a garage beside
the hotel. Formerly, in his day, the building had been used as a
livery-barn. There used to be pictures of famous trotting and pacing
horses on the walls of the little office at the front. Old Dave Grey,
who owned racehorses of his own, ran the livery-barn then, and John
occasionally hired a rig there. He hired a rig and took Lillian for a
ride into the country, along moonlit roads. By a lonely farmhouse a dog
barked. Sometimes they drove along a little dirt road lined with elders
and stopped the horse. How still everything was! What a queer feeling
they had! They couldn’t talk. Sometimes they sat in silence thus, very
near each other, for a long, long time. Once they got out of the buggy,
having tied the horse to the fence, and walked in a newly cut hayfield.
The cut hay lay all about in little cocks. John wanted to lie on one of
the hay-cocks with Lillian, but did not dare suggest it.

At the hotel John ate his dinner in silence. There wasn’t even a
traveling salesman in the dining room, and presently the proprietor’s
wife came and stood by his table to talk with him. They had a good many
tourists, but this just happened to be a quiet day. Dull days came that
way in the hotel business. The woman’s husband was a traveling man and
had bought the hotel to give his wife something to keep her interested
while he was on the road. He was away from home so much! They had come
to Caxton from Pittsburgh.

After he had dined, John went up to his room, and presently the woman
followed. The door leading into the hall had been left open, and she
came and stood in the doorway. Really, she was rather handsome. She
only wanted to be sure that everything was all right, that he had
towels and soap and everything he needed.

For a time she lingered by the door talking of the town.

“It’s a good little town. General Hurst is buried here. You should
drive out to the cemetery and see the statue.” He wondered who General
Hurst was. In what war had he fought? Odd that he hadn’t remembered
about him. The town had a piano factory, and there was a watch company
from Cincinnati talking of putting up a plant. “They figure there is
less chance of labor trouble in a small town like this.”

The woman went, going reluctantly. As she was going along the hallway
she stopped once and looked back. There was something a little queer.
They were both self-conscious. “I hope you’ll be comfortable,” she
said. At forty a man did not come home to his own home town to
start---- A traveling man’s wife, eh? Well! well!

At seven-forty-five John went out for a walk on Main Street and almost
at once he met Tom Ballard, who at once recognized him, a fact that
pleased Tom. He bragged about it. “Once I see a face, I never forget.
Well! Well!” When John was twenty-two Tom must have been about fifteen.
His father was the leading doctor of the town. He took John in tow,
walked back with him toward the hotel. He kept exclaiming: “I knew you
at once. You haven’t changed much, really.”

Tom was in his turn a doctor, and there was about him something----
Right away John guessed what it was. They went up into John’s room,
and John, having in his bag a bottle of whiskey, poured Tom a drink,
which he took somewhat too eagerly, John thought. There was talk. After
Tom had taken the drink he sat on the edge of the bed still holding
the bottle John had passed to him. Herman was running a dray now.
He had married Kit Small and had five kids. Joe was working for the
International Harvester Company. “I don’t know whether he’s in town now
or not. He’s a trouble-shooter, a swell mechanic, a good fellow,” Tom
said. They drank again.

As for Lillian, mentioned with an air of being casual by John, he,
John, knew of course that she had been married and divorced. There
was some sort of trouble about another man. Her husband married
again later, and now she lived with her mother, her father, the
shoe merchant, having died. Tom spoke somewhat guardedly, as though
protecting a friend.

“I guess she’s all right now, going straight and all. Good thing she
never had any kids. She’s a little nervous and queer; has lost her
looks a good deal.”

The two men went downstairs and, walking along Main Street, got into a
car belonging to the doctor.

“I’ll take you for a little ride,” Tom said; but as he was about to
pull away from the curb where the car had been parked, he turned and
smiled at his passenger. “We ought to celebrate a little, account of
your coming back here,” he said. “What do you say to a quart?”

John handed him a ten-dollar bill, and he disappeared into a near-by
drug store. When he came back he laughed.

“I used your name all right. They didn’t recognize it. In the
prescription I wrote out I said you had a general breakdown, that you
needed to be built up. I recommended that you take a teaspoonful three
times a day. Lord! my prescription book is getting almost empty.” The
drug store belonged to a man named Will Bennett. “You remember him,
maybe. He’s Ed Bennett’s son; married Carrie Wyatt.” The names were but
dim things in John’s mind. “This man is going to get drunk. He is going
to try to get me drunk, too,” he thought.

When they had turned out of Main Street and into Walnut Street they
stopped midway between two street lights and had another drink, John
holding the bottle to his lips, but putting his tongue over the
opening. He remembered the evenings with Joe and Herman when he had
secretly poured his beer into a spittoon. He felt cold and lonely.
Walnut Street was one along which he used to walk, coming home late at
night from Lillian’s house. He remembered people who then lived along
the street, and a list of names began running through his head. Often
the names remained, but did not call up images of people. They were
just names. He hoped the doctor would not turn the car into the street
in which the Holdens had lived. Lillian had lived over in another part
of town, in what was called “the Red House District.” Just why it had
been called that John did not know.


                                  III

They drove silently along, up a small hill, and came to the edge of
town, going south. Stopping before a house that had evidently been
built since John’s time, Tom sounded his horn.

“Didn’t the fair-ground use to stand about here?” John asked. The
doctor turned and nodded his head.

“Yes, just here,” he said. He kept on sounding his horn, and a man and
woman came out of the house and stood in the road beside the car.

“Let’s get Maud and Alf and all go over to Lylse’s Point,” Tom said.
He had indeed taken John into tow. For a time John wondered if he was
to be introduced. “We got some hooch. Meet John Holden; used to live
here years ago.” At the fair-ground, when John was a lad, Dave Grey,
the livery-man, used to work out his racehorses in the early morning.
Herman, who was a horse enthusiast, who then dreamed of some day
becoming a horseman, came often to John’s house in the early morning,
and the two boys went off to the fair-ground without breakfast. Herman
had got some sandwiches made of slices of bread and cold meat out of
his mother’s pantry. They went ’cross-lots, climbing fences and eating
the sandwiches. In a meadow they had to cross there was heavy dew on
the grass, and the meadow larks flew up before them. Herman had at
least come somewhere near expressing in his life his youthful passion:
he still lived about horses; he owned a dray. With a little inward
qualm John wondered. Perhaps Herman ran a motor truck.

The man and woman got into the car, the woman on the back seat with
John, the husband in front with Tom, and they drove away to another
house. John could not keep track of the streets they passed through.
Occasionally he asked the woman, “What street are we in now?” They were
joined by Maud and Alf, who also crowded into the back seat. Maud was
a slender woman of twenty-eight or thirty, with yellow hair and blue
eyes, and at once she seemed determined to make up to John. “I don’t
take more than an inch of room,” she said, laughing and squeezing
herself in between John and the first woman, whose name he could not
later remember.

He rather liked Maud. When the car had been driven some eighteen
miles along a gravel road, they came to Lylse’s farmhouse, which had
been converted into a roadhouse, and got out. Maud had been silent
most of the way, but she sat very close to John, and as he felt cold
and lonely, he was grateful for the warmth of her slender body.
Occasionally she spoke to him in a half-whisper. “Ain’t the night
swell! Gee! I like it out in the dark this way.”

Lylse’s Point was at a bend of the Samson River, a small stream to
which John as a lad had occasionally gone on fishing excursions with
his father. Later he went out there several times with crowds of young
fellows and their girls. They drove out then in Grey’s old bus, and the
trip out and back took several hours. On the way home at night they
had great fun singing at the top of their voices and waking sleeping
farmers along the road. Occasionally some of the party got out and
walked for a ways. It was a chance for a fellow to kiss his girl when
the others could not see. By hurrying a little, they could later easily
enough catch up with the bus.

A rather heavy-faced Italian named Francisco owned Lylse’s, and it
had a dance hall and dining room. Drinks could be had if you knew
the ropes, and it was evident the doctor and his friends were old
acquaintances. At once they declared John should not buy anything, the
declaration, in fact, being made before he had offered. “You’re our
guest now; don’t you forget that. When we come sometime to your town,
then it will be all right,” Tom said. He laughed. “And that makes me
think. I forgot your change,” he said, handing John a five-dollar bill.
The whiskey got at the drug store had been consumed on the way out, all
except John and Maud drinking heartily. “I don’t like the stuff. Do
you, Mr. Holden?” Maud said and giggled. Twice during the trip out her
fingers had crept over and touched lightly his fingers, and each time
she had apologized. “Oh, do excuse me!” she said. John felt a little as
he had felt earlier in the evening when the woman of the hotel had come
to stand at the door of his room and had seemed reluctant about going
away.

After they got out of the car at Lylse’s, he felt uncomfortably old
and queer. “What am I doing here with these people?” he kept asking
himself. When they had got into the light, he stole a look at his
watch. It was not yet nine o’clock. Several other cars, most of them,
the doctor explained, from Yerington, stood before the door, and when
they had taken several drinks of rather mild Italian red wine, all of
the party except Maud and John went into the dance hall to dance. The
doctor took John aside and whispered to him. “Lay off Maud,” he said.
He explained hurriedly that Alf and Maud had been having a row and that
for several days they had not spoken to each other, although they lived
in the same house, ate at the same table, and slept in the same bed.
“He thinks she gets too gay with men,” Tom explained. “You better look
out a little.”

The woman and man sat on a bench under a tree on the lawn before the
house, and when the others had danced, they came out, bringing more
drinks. Tom had got some more whiskey. “It’s moon, but pretty good
stuff,” he declared. In the clear sky overhead stars were shining, and
when the others were dancing, John turned his head and saw across the
road and between the trees that lined its banks the stars reflected in
the water of the Samson. A light from the house fell on Maud’s face,
a rather strikingly lovely face in that light, but when looked at
closely, rather petulant. “A good deal of the spoiled child in her,”
John thought.

She began asking him about life in the city of New York.

“I was there once, but for only three days. It was when I went to
school in the East. A girl I knew lived there. She married a lawyer
named Trigan, or something like that. You didn’t know him, I guess.”

And now there was a hungry, dissatisfied look on her face.

“God! I’d like to live in a place like that, not in this hole! There
hadn’t no man better tempt me.” When she said that she giggled again.
Once during the evening they walked across the dusty road and stood for
a time by the river’s edge, but got back to the bench before the others
had finished their dance. Maud persistently refused to dance.

At ten-thirty, all of the others having got a little drunk, they drove
back to town, Maud again sitting beside John. On the drive Alf went to
sleep. Maud pressed her slender body against John’s, and after two or
three futile moves to which he made no special response, she boldly put
her hand into his. The second woman and her husband talked with Tom
of people they had seen at Lylse’s. “Do you think there’s anything up
between Fanny and Joe? No; I think she’s on the square.”

They got to John’s hotel at eleven-thirty, and bidding them all good
night, he went upstairs. Alf had awakened. When they were parting, he
leaned out of the car and looked closely at John. “What did you say
your name was?” he asked.

John went up a dark stairway and sat on the bed in his room. Lillian
had lost her looks. She had married, and her husband had divorced her.
Joe was a trouble-shooter. He worked for the International Harvester
Company, a swell mechanic. Herman was a drayman. He had five kids.

Three men in a room next John’s were playing poker. They laughed and
talked, and their voices came clearly to John. “You think so, do
you? Well, I’ll prove you’re wrong.” A mild quarrel began. As it was
summer, the windows of John’s room were open, and he went to one to
stand, looking out. A moon had come up, and he could see down into
an alleyway. Two men came out of a street and stood in the alleyway,
whispering. After they left, two cats crept along a roof and began a
love-making scene. The game in the next room broke up. John could hear
voices in the hallway.

“Now, forget it. I tell you, you’re both wrong.” John thought of his
son at the camp up in Vermont. “I haven’t written him a letter today.”
He felt guilty.

Opening his bag, he took out paper and sat down to write; but after two
or three attempts gave it up and put the paper away again. How fine the
night had been as he sat on the bench beside the woman at Lylse’s! Now
the woman was in bed with her husband. They were not speaking to each
other.

“Could I do it?” John asked himself, and then, for the first time that
evening, a smile came to his lips.

“Why not?” he asked himself.

With his bag in his hand he went down the dark hallway and into the
hotel office and began pounding on a desk. A fat old man with thin red
hair and sleep-heavy eyes appeared from somewhere. John explained.

“I can’t sleep. I think I’ll drive on. I want to get to Pittsburgh and
as I can’t sleep, I might as well be driving.” He paid his bill.

Then he asked the clerk to go and arouse the man in the garage, and
gave him an extra dollar. “If I need gas, is there any place open?”
he asked, but evidently the man did not hear. Perhaps he thought the
question absurd.

He stood in the moonlight on the sidewalk before the door of the hotel
and heard the clerk pounding on a door. Presently voices were heard,
and the headlights of his car shone. The car appeared, driven by a boy.
He seemed very alive and alert.

“I saw you out to Lylse’s,” he said, and, without being asked, went to
look at the tank. “You’re all right; you got ’most eight gallons,” he
assured John as he climbed into the driver’s seat.

How friendly the car, how friendly the night! John was not one who
enjoyed fast driving, but he went out of the town at very high speed.
“You go down two blocks, turn to your right, and go three. There you
hit the cement. Go right straight to the east. You can’t miss it.”

John was taking the turns at racing speed. At the edge of town some one
shouted to him from the darkness, but he did not stop. He hungered to
get into the road going east.

“I’ll let her out,” he thought. “Lord! It will be fun! I’ll let her
out.”


FOOTNOTES:

     [2] Copyright, 1925, by The Century Co.
         Copyright, 1926, by Sherwood Anderson.




                           GERTRUDE DONOVAN[3]

                             By NATHAN ASCH

                    (From _The Transatlantic Review_)


A sound of cutting reached her ears. She halted and listened. So they
were ripping the ticker out, as Charlie said they would. Then it was
all over. She didn’t believe it yet. Failed. Bankrupt. She didn’t
understand it. What did it mean? Then she remembered what Charlie
had further said: a new job. And she saw a picture of herself going
downtown to the employment office early in the morning; filling out a
blank; being told that she would be notified if an opening could be
found. Then waiting; every morning waiting for the postman, and finding
that there was nothing for her. Then the call at the office. The
manager would first look at her legs, then at her neck.

He would measure her with his eyes. The old look. She tried to picture
the new boss. Fat? Thin? Good looking? Will he try to get fresh? She’d
put him in his place.

She became angry. They had no business hiring her, if they were going
to fail. She wasn’t working for love. It’s no fun to be looking for a
new job every day. Just as you get started, and the clerks stop looking
at you as if you were lying naked on the bed waiting for them, you’ve
got to give it all up and start all over again.

Her hands began automatically to hit the keys. And the Hudson Seal:
she’d have to forget that, for this year. Mother would never let her
off on the board. She’d start crying about the high prices, and the
raise in rent, and a million and one other things. Then she’d look at
her as if she were murdering her. No coat and no permanent wave next
month.

Her hand momentarily stopped typing, and touched her hair; then opening
a drawer in her desk, she took out a patent leather bag, from which she
extracted a small mirror and examined her hair. It was getting loose.
They charged you twenty dollars and it didn’t last more than a month.

She took out a powder puff, and powdered herself, twisting her lower
lip over the upper and blowing at her nose.

A pink light shone out of the call box, and taking a pad and a pencil,
she walked out of her cubicle.

With Mr. Glymmer in the room were Mr. Reed and Harry Widener. They did
not notice her entrance but kept on talking with gravity. She sat down
in the soft chair that she always took, crossed her legs, and did not
adjust her skirt as she always did when the junior partner was not
there, and waited. Her hand went once again to her hair, lifting it
near the temples.

He was nice. Much nicer than Jim Denby. He always looked at you nice,
and his dark eyes looked into yours something personal. He was a man.
And he didn’t look as if he played servant girl to any woman, like Jim
did. It was nice; it was equal, it was.

She caught a few words. Protective Committee and Supreme Court. Reed
was as usual very cool, he sat on the edge of the desk, and his fingers
played with a cigarette holder. Glymmer seemed more nervous. She didn’t
like him. Too anxious to please always. Not to her or to the other
clerks, but to the customers, or to his partners. She didn’t like his
smile. She never had liked it. She wouldn’t trust any man with a smile
like that.

She looked again at Harry Widener. He seemed amused at the whole
affair. He hardly said a word, just looked at them, the corners of his
mouth curled up. Then he looked at her, and she stiffened up. But his
gaze immediately dissolved.

Then Mr. Glymmer began to dictate. She copied his words, with
concentration as always, forgetting everything else, even ignoring the
meaning of what she wrote. When he had finished, she rose and prepared
to leave. But she stopped and asked.

“Mr. Glymmer, will the office be open tomorrow?”

“Mr. Zuckor, when he returns, will have an announcement to make.”

She became angry again, considered whether she should bang the door,
became frightened, and then resolved that since she was losing her
position she might as well bang it. So she did, and walked into the
general office.

“Well, Cutie,” said Charlie when he saw her, “it’s up.”

“Do we work, tomorrow?” she asked.

“Not a chance. Better take a typewriter home with you. It’ll be your
pay.” The other clerks laughed.

“If I don’t get my pay,” she said, “I’ll have Mr. Glymmer arrested.”

“Harry Widener, too?” asked Charlie.

She stiffened up and said:

“Mind your business.” And walked back to her desk.

She began to copy the letter Mr. Glymmer had dictated to her. In typing
it was different than in shorthand taking: she could think as much as
she wanted to; the eyes communicated to the fingers unconsciously.

Harry Widener arrested! Harry Widener arrested! Arrested! Arrested!

“I know one thing,” she said nearly loud. “If Harry Widener asked me, I
wouldn’t care if he were married a million times; I’d go with him.” She
became frightened, and looked around to see if anybody were listening.
Then she said in a high voice:

“I would!”

The telephone bell rang. Still repeating, “I would,” she answered it. A
familiar heavy voice came from the other end:

“That you, Gertie?”

Jim. Oh, bother. What did he want?

“Just heard the news,” he said. “What are you going to do?”

She kept silent. In her mind she was comparing Harry Widener with Jim
Denby. “He’s got better eyes and a better figure; and he’s nicer. Yes,
he’s lots nicer.”

“Gertie,” she heard.

“What?”

“I’m coming around tonight. I’ve got something to tell you.”

She wished he wouldn’t. She didn’t want him around that night. And his
hair was nicer. Straight and nice, not all curled up. And she’d bet he
didn’t look so foolish when he kissed somebody.

“I’m tired, Jim,” she said.

And she thought, “I’d bet if he were asking me to see him tonight, he
wouldn’t ask like that: he’d say something.”

“It’s all right, Gert. I won’t stay long.”

She hung up. What did he want from her? He would come around tonight,
pestering. Would she marry him? He had two thousand saved up. Live in
the Bronx. Two rooms and a kitchen. Toilet on the floor. Bath in the
wash bowl. Not she.

Then Miss James, the telephone girl, came in. They began talking. Miss
James told Gertie where she might look for a job.

“He told me yesterday,” she said. “Theatrical office. Twenty-two a
week, and you don’t get killed like here on the Street.”

Theatrical office. Maybe she’d get a chance to go on the stage. She’d
been quite good at it in school. And then Jim had taken her a few times
to the theater. It was easy. All you needed was pull.

And then, maybe Harry Widener. If she’d be an actress, it would be all
right. Actresses can do those things. Why, you read about them in the
papers.

“I don’t know,” she said to Miss James. “A girl is taking an awful
chance going to one of those theatrical offices. Why, the manager would
want you to do all kinds of things for the job.”

“What’s the difference,” said Miss James. “Twenty-two a week. Me for
money. If I could take shorthand....”

The afternoon slowly wore on. At four Zuckor came into her office and
dictated to her an announcement, that owing to the liquidation of
the firm’s assets the office would be closed. Gertrude copied what
he said without hearing it. The office had stopped interesting her.
She was leaving, and it already represented a forgotten past. And she
would have completely ignored this fact of bankruptcy if not that it
represented a parting from Harry Widener. In the few months that she
had been with Glymmer, Reed the junior partner had become a part of
her. True she knew that, while in the office, there was a gulf that
divided them, a gulf that was insurmountable: the difference between
employer and employee. Each one had his or her rights, which were
not to be disregarded. And although at times she almost wished that
the junior partner would tear that difference away, something within
herself said, that if he did, he would not be Harry Widener, and she
would cease being Gerty Donovan. She knew that although physically
they would come nearer, there would be a complete divorce of their
spirits. And she knew that now their spirits were near, that he noticed
her, that when she passed he looked at her with eyes puzzled, and that
whenever their eyes met, for however a fleeting moment, a union had
been accomplished. And she had been satisfied, even gratified by this
fleeting communion.

He had been her criterion. She had used him as a standard by which she
measured all her acquaintances. She had never been dissatisfied with
Jim Denby. She had known him for a long time, for so long that the
beginning of their acquaintance was completely forgotten. She had taken
for granted that some day she would marry him, she had been encouraged
in this thought by her mother, by all who knew her. She had to get her
man.

But when she had seen Harry Widener, she became doubtful. Intuitively
she knew that he was a higher type of man than her accepted future
husband. And although she could not define his finesse, nor possibly
even locate it, she knew it existed. And she noticed that in all
comparisons Jim failed and Widener triumphed.

And possibly she would have been satisfied with Jim if she could
continue to see the other. Even to be near him. She somehow felt
cleaner, more refined, in a higher world with the junior partner. She
saw him rarely. He did not come into the office often, but stayed at
his club, from where he sent in any new business he had secured. But
sometimes he did come, and she knew he would, and it was enough. He
was a rare drug, that she needed but seldom, but without which she felt
she could not live.

And now it was over. Harry Widener was no more. She was to go home and
stay with Jim Denby. She was made for such as he. For men with warm,
moist palms, and warm, moist faces, and warm, moist looks. For men
who do not take but beg. For sixty dollars a week, and a bookkeeper’s
household, and a bookkeeper’s children, and a bookkeeper’s life. Oh!
Hell!

Absentmindedly she cleaned her typewriter, and was ready to place the
cover, and then she remembered that it didn’t matter, and left it where
it always lay during the day, under her desk. Then she turned to the
wall where her cloak and hat were hung. No, she should go into the
general office and say goodbye. She didn’t want to. But she might yet
see Harry Widener. So she went in.

She was surprised to see the office as it had always been. It was not
at all changed. You might come in tomorrow and begin to work again.
Possibly it was all a lie. Or a joke. There was no failure. It would
go on as before. And she would continue to see Harry Widener. Harry
Widener. Harry Widener. Harry Widener, something shouted into her ear.

She saw him halfway across the general office. He was sitting on a
desk, reading an evening paper, and smoking. The blue smoke twined
itself about his manicured finger nails. Run over to him now, and ...
and what? Why, kiss him, of course, and tell him you want him, that he
can do anything he wants to with you. He can walk over you, and spit on
you. But quick, or it’ll be too late. Hurry. Hurry. He’s looking up.
He’s looking.

“I guess it’s all over, Miss Donovan,” he said with a smile.

“Yes, Mr. Widener,” she answered.

“Too bad,” he said, and returned to his paper.

Her knees weak, she passed him. It was too late. It was too late. Too
late. What shall she do?

There was a little group near Mr. Zuckor’s desk. He was paying off. He
seemed very pale and very tired. He called her.

“Miss Donovan, here’s your pay.”

She came over. Took it. Signed the receipt. Too late.

She rode home with her mind a blank. She did not even read the paper
which she had automatically bought with her ticket. Somebody gave her
his seat, and she did not thank him, but absentmindedly sat down, drew
on her gloves, and sat. People jostled over her, pressed her knees,
stepped on her pumps, but she ignored this. There was nothing she could
do. Everything was over. And she was not given to brooding.

Then she came out of the train, walked to the street, and turned the
corner grocery toward her home. This was her neighborhood, where
she had been born, brought up. Here was the motion-picture house,
“The Lakewood,” where, when a little girl, she used to wait outside,
for some one to take her in, children not being admitted without
companions. Later, when she had entered high school, she used to come
here every night, and in a corner, far away from even the dull light,
she would sit with a neighborhood boy and mush: kiss, and soul kiss,
and hold, and he would try to touch her not yet full grown breasts,
and she would refuse and then unwillingly consent. There had been many
couples in the corner, and they would all sit there, ignoring the
picture; just sit in the dark and press one against the other.

And here was the ice cream parlor, “Gunn’s,” with its inviting display
of sweets, and the little room in the back, with tables. After the
movies she used to come here with her friends, and they would gorge
themselves with the ice cream, ordering the most fancy concoctions,
until their mouths would become like acid, from too many sweets.

Then she passed the “dark corner” of Harrigans’s, the hardware man’s.
Here was the least light in the neighborhood. And into here, after
the movies and the ice cream, her companion would pull her, and here
they would stand in the shadow of the two glass cases, holding one
another in their arms, and they would seek something which they did not
understand, and did not know where to find it, until she, frightened at
the lateness of the hour, would tear herself away and run home.

And finally just before her home, she passed the _Borough News_
printing works, above which was housed the Lakewood Business College,
which she had entered after her two years in high school. Here
was where she had learned stenography, and typing, and the little
bookkeeping she knew. Nearly all her friends had entered this school
which was their stepping-stone into the business world.

Mother was in the kitchen, and as she took off her coat Gerty wondered
when would be the best time to break the news to her. Before dinner or
after dinner? It would be better to get it over with before, but then
again, dinner would be spoiled; there might even be no dinner at all.
Gerty had no appetite, but she reflected that anything, even eating,
was better than listening to her mother’s lamenting. So she decided to
wait.

She walked into the dining room, took the doily off the table, went to
the sideboard, and took out the napkins. Automatically she began to set
the table.

Mother appeared, fat, satisfied, white aproned.

“That you, Gertie? Jim was here awhile ago. Said he’s coming after
dinner.”

Gerty said nothing. She placed on the table the salt cellar, the knives
and forks, the only really good things they had in the house. Came from
the family. Solid silver.

“Would you believe it,” continued her mother, “butter’s sixty cents
a pound. And eggs a dollar a dozen. I gave Strinelli a piece of my
mind. Mrs. Brown told me he’s got no end of eggs in his cellar, and
he’s keeping them for higher prices. I said to him: ‘It would be a
good thing if they threw you foreigners out. Trying to live on us poor
people. A dollar a dozen for eggs. The idea.’”

Gerty kept on setting. Even after she had finished placing on the table
everything that apparently was necessary, she continued. She adjusted
the position of the cutlery. Brought water, something very rare. Dusted
off the top of the sideboard. Anything better than talking. An idea
was being born in her mind, and her mother was preventing her from
developing it.

Harry Widener would be with another firm, of that she was sure. Why
not try to get a job there? She would ask him to recommend her. He
couldn’t refuse her. She had been a good stenographer. Never late. No
nonsense in the office. No peek-a-boo waists or transparent skirts. She
didn’t chew gum or anything. Why shouldn’t she be able to get a job
there? And then she would be with him.

Her mother fixed her nearsighted eyes on Gerty, followed her movements,
and went on talking.

“Mrs. Denby’s awfully low. They expect her to go any day. The doctor
said it was cancer of the stomach. Incurable, he said. Lying in St.
Mark’s. Private room. A day nurse. A night nurse. It must be awful for
Jim to pay all that. He’s nice to come down to see us, and his mother
almost dead.”

Gerty understood her mother’s weak tactics. At other times it amused
her to hear the older woman talking, praising Jim. But now it only
served to irritate her. It was none of Mother’s business whom she was
going to marry. She was free. Earning her own living. She could do as
she pleased. She could even go to live by herself if she wanted to.
She’d save money anyway. And time. With the subway, she was wasting two
hours every day travelling. And if she went out in the evening it was
two more hours lost. If this kept up, she’d do it. She wasn’t going to
listen to anybody’s talking. She was a free and equal human being, she
was.

“I’m hungry,” she announced.

Dinner proceeded more or less quietly. The few attempts of the mother
at conversation were promptly squelched by her daughter’s silence. Only
toward the end did Mrs. Donovan begin her attacks again.

“Jim told me, while he was here, he’s getting a raise at the end of
the month. Three hundred a month, and assistant teller. He might even
get to be assistant cashier some day. One hundred dollars a week and a
private room. He’s a good boy, Jim is.”

“If you’re going to keep on like this,” said Gerty silently to her
mother, “I won’t tell you about the failure.”

“And he’s got a flat at One Hundred and Fortieth Street. Two rooms and
a kitchen. The landlord will paper the walls any way you’ll want him
to. Yes, and a bath tub, too. In the kitchen.”

A few moments before, Harry Widener had been far away, almost
imperceptible. Now he came quite near, and looked at Gerty with his
nice black eyes, and said: “You’re going to be an actress on One
Hundred and Fortieth Street with two rooms and a kitchen. Bath tub in
the kitchen. And you’re going to take dictation on the walls he’ll
decorate for you because you don’t chew gum.”

She was going crazy. If she wasn’t, her mother was making her. And she
looked at her mother and with her eyes said: “I want Harry Widener, and
I don’t care who knows it. You or Jim Denby or anybody else. I don’t
give a good God damn who knows it.” Like that.

And aloud she said.

“I am going to my room.”

“Better get ready for Jim,” her mother said. “Put on the mauve waist.”

As she shut the door of her room Gerty reflected that she had not told
her mother of the loss of her position. She didn’t care. Let her mother
worry later. With those dirty tricks. Trying to talk her into marrying
Jim. She wouldn’t have him if he were the last man on earth. Not if he
had all of the world’s gold. And all the diamonds. Not with a face like
that. He’d have to have it made over again.

She sat down on her bed, adjusted her hair, and said:

“If he’ll begin pestering me, I’ll send him to hell, I will.”

Charity. Trying to give her something. Protecting her from the terrible
world. She didn’t want protecting. She wanted to be left alone. People
shouldn’t interfere into what she did. It was all their fault anyway.
If they wouldn’t have interfered, she....

“Shut up,” she said to herself, and began unbuttoning her waist.

“Mauve waist,” she said. “I’ll give him mauve waist. If he’d be a man,
he wouldn’t come around me. He’d stop bothering me. Can’t he see I
don’t want him and his protecting.”

She walked toward the closet, opened the door, and took off the hook
the mauve waist. Absentmindedly she placed her arms through the
sleeves and buttoned it. Then she sat on the chair before the mirror
and began to powder herself.

She remembered that once, about two months before, a woman friend of
Harry Widener had come into the office toward the end of an afternoon,
and had waited for him. A woman of his kind. With hair that received
the attention of a frisier, face that was massaged, and hands that
were manicured every day. She had worn a dark tailor-made suit and a
mauve waist with a lace collar cut so low that the upper parts of her
white breasts could be seen in the opening. She was stunning, Gerty had
admitted that to herself. This was class. And when Harry Widener had
come in, she had held out her hand to him, a black kid gloved hand, in
a manner that Gerty knew she could never have imitated. The hand had
gone right out, accompanied by a smile, in which the teeth were shown,
even teeth, and dazzlingly white. And one Saturday afternoon, walking
up Fifth Avenue, Gerty had seen a waist like that: mauve, with a white
lace collar, cut very low. She had bought it, although the price had
been exorbitant and a large part of her salary had been spent in the
purchase. She never dared to wear it in the office, it was cut so low,
and she had been afraid that Widener would notice the resemblance. And
even in the house she wore it only on rare moments. When she wanted to
feel equal to him, to do something that she should want him to see her
do, she dressed in the mauve waist.

Noticing that the ribbon of her chemise showed in the cut, she untied
it and tucked it into her bosom. Her neck now looked similar to the
neck of the woman in the office. A white triangle deep into her bosom,
with the curve of a breast showing on each side. Her breasts were just
as round as the other’s, and just as white. It would be better to show
a little more. She tucked aside the collar, and the curve became more
pronounced. She sat at the mirror examining her face, fixing her hair.
If he were to see her now, he would not be able to resist her. He would
look at her with his black eyes, his brows would contract a little,
and his nostrils puff out. And his arms would stretch out toward her,
would envelop her, and she would lie in them quiet, unafraid.

She closed her eyes, and through the shimmering darkness of her lids
she saw Harry Widener. He was looking at her. And she was looking at
him. He was saying to her “You are with me now, and you are quiet.”
And she answered to him, “Yes, I am quiet.” And they sat there in the
darkness, she feeling his odour, and lulled to sleep by it.

She felt a draught of wind, heard the noise of a door opening, and saw
Harry Widener tumble into the light. She opened her eyes. Her mother
was standing in the doorway.

Mrs. Donovan was talking, but Gerty did not hear what she said. She
could not orientate herself. She did not recognize her surroundings,
nor the fat woman before her. This was strange to her. She had no place
in the room where she was. She belonged somewhere else. In dazzling,
flickering sunlight with Harry Widener. And peace.

“You’re a nice one,” her mother was saying. “It’s got to be a stranger
that gives me the news about my own child. Why didn’t you tell me you
were out of a job?”

Gerty did not answer. She heard somebody talking, felt she was being
reproved, but it did not move her. She had been with him a moment
before, and she still felt his presence.

Then she heard her mother say:

“Jim’s in the front room. Better go out to him. And you’d better be
nice to him. You won’t find a better man.”

Her mother was talking, but Gerty did not understand her words. But she
felt that she was commanded to go, so she stood up and walked toward
the front room. Her mother not understanding, placed herself out of her
way, and let her pass.

She came into the front room, and looked at the figure sitting on the
sofa, a figure that rose when she entered, and came toward her. She
answered his hello, sat down on the sofa in the spot he had sat in.
Felt him sitting down beside her, noticed her mother had not come in
with her, and sat.

She tried to gather her thoughts together. Who was it who was sitting
beside her on the sofa? It was Jim Denby.

No, it was Harry Widener. It was Harry Widener with eyes that were
not so nice, and with a face that tried to be as expressionless as it
could. But no, it could not have been Harry Widener. Harry Widener
looked at you personal like, and decent. And Jim Denby didn’t. He
looked at you as if he wanted to eat you up. He was in love with you.
And Harry wasn’t. Why?

Further her mind refused to travel. A black cloud came into her brain
and forbade all thought. And she surrendered to the cloud and sat
motionless and thoughtless.

Then she heard Jim or Harry talking. He was asking her what she would
do. And she did not know how to answer. Because she knew she had to
give two different answers. If this were Jim, she’d have to tell him
she would look for another job, and if this were Harry she’d have to
say.... She could not decide which it was. So she kept quiet.

Then she heard:

“Gerty, I’ve got something to tell you.”

He was speaking. At last he was speaking. This was the moment she had
been waiting for. Now he would look at her with his black eyes, and
fold her around. And peace.

“Gerty, what’s the use of you looking for a job. You can’t work all
your life. You’re not made for work. You’ve got to stay home and be
taken care of.”

He stopped, and she waited. Why was he talking? Why didn’t he do it?
She felt he was looking at her, but she did not dare to turn her eyes.
He was gazing at her. His eyes travelled over the waist, went into
the lace collar, and followed its contour to the breasts. Her heart
stopped. Would he recognize it? Would he be angry because she imitated
his lady friend?

He began speaking again:

“Gerty, let me take care of you. I can do it. I’ll treat you like a
queen. There won’t be nothing too good for you. I’ll love you, and I’ll
honor you. I’ll be dirt under your feet. You ain’t made for an office.
I’ll be good to you. Swear to God, I will.”

What was he waiting for? What did he want? Why didn’t he take her? She
was his. She had always been his. Hadn’t she waited for him all this
time. Did she have to teach him how to make love?

He was evidently waiting for an answer, and while waiting, his gaze
travelled on her breasts. He was looking at them. And involuntarily she
wanted to screen them with her hands, but then remembered who he was,
and felt ashamed. He could do with her what he wanted. He could take
all she had.

She felt his breath on her face, and closed her unseeing eyes. The
moment had come, and she was not surprised when she felt his arms
around her, enveloping, and his lips on hers.

And she said: “Yes, I’ll marry you.”

And he kissed her again and again, and she was satisfied.

Then she heard steps, and her mother came in. And she heard him say to
her mother that he was going to marry her, and then her mother answered:

“Jim, I’m glad to hear it.”

And she looked with her eyes. And she saw it wasn’t Harry. It was Jim!
Jim! Jim! Not Harry!

In one bound she jumped up, and rushed to her room. When she had banged
the door shut, she threw herself on the bed, and moaned.

“What did I do? What did I do?”


FOOTNOTES:

     [3] Copyright, 1925, by Harcourt, Brace, and Co.
         Reprinted by permission of the publishers.




                            GUARD OF HONOR[4]

                           By BARRY BENEFIELD

                      (From _The Pictorial Review_)


Once in Asphodel they had called him Willie when he was a little
boy, and then they called him Bill. There came a time when, upon his
occasional trips back to his Arkansas home, his old friends ventured
a little nervously to call him Will, and the Asphodel _Argus_ printed
him as “Mr. William P. Ott, sales-manager and treasurer of the Apollo
Clothing Co., of Chicago.”

Somewhere somehow in the flat fields of northern France he lost his
richest worldly treasure--that part of his marvelous memory that
covered the period between his sixteenth and thirty-second years, that
segment of his memory which had known not only all his war experiences
up to that moment, but also every garment manufactured by his company
down to the last button, every trade route sold by the Apollo
travelers, every customer’s rating and idiosyncrasies, every weak and
strong point of the goods and the salesmen of his company’s chief
competitors.

And so, having come home by way of three or four Government hospitals,
he was, after a brief period of lionizing that puzzled the pink-faced,
snub-nosed, chubby little man, once again to his friends of Asphodel,
and as always to his widowed mother, just Willie.

On that hot June morning Willie left his mother’s house and went down
the red hill leading from the higher residential section to the six
business streets, completing his habitual morning round by ten o’clock:
to the post-office, where he received and read and shook his head over
an eagerly solicitous letter from the president of the Apollo Clothing
Co.; to Hampton’s Furniture Store and Mortuary Parlor, where he sat
awhile in a cane-bottomed chair on the sidewalk, apparently listening
to other men of leisure talk, though their words merely buzzed in
his ears; to Embree’s Confectionery Store, where he bought a tinfoil
package of cigarettes; and finally to his real goal for the morning,
Zebedee Smith’s Barber Shop, where he silently submitted to shaving
and shoe-shining, and then sat in front of the big plate-glass window,
staring, round-eyed, out across the street, through an old brick
building that had lost everything in a fire except its side walls, out
across the depression in the earth, at the bottom of which Little Sandy
River slipped southward on its unquestioning way toward the great gulf
that would presently swallow it up.

As he stared and consciously saw nothing in detail, while his mind
continued its eternal reaching down for something precious that it
could almost but not quite touch, two figures in the street moved
across his vision, and he sat up suddenly and studied them. As well as
he knew any one he knew Goldie, once the owner of Asphodel’s only candy
store and soda-water fountain, and Honey Boy, Asphodel’s best-known
individual, the small town’s huge, red-headed, freckle-faced, obscenely
dirty, half-witted son.

Goldie’s infinitesimal figure, frail and stooping, was covered with an
old and spotted and worn Confederate uniform, the gray coat hanging
in a confusion of folds and wrinkles from his narrow shoulders, the
trousers turned up at least two inches at the bottom. His black slouch
hat made his very thin, old face seem even thinner than it was.

Honey Boy had once owned a donkey, and it was one of the few memories
that lived in his cloudy mind. He always carried a stout switch with
which he belabored his imaginary mount, while he frequently jumped up
and down as if he were being bounced by the donkey that was no more.
Now as he pranced along behind Goldie, Honey Boy, between attacks upon
his invisible donkey, mimicked as nearly as he could every movement
of the little old man who marched along in front of him. Laughter
was thrilling to Honey Boy; he was accustomed to that reward for his
antics, and he kept opening his wide mouth, filled with yellow stumps
of teeth, in a leering grin as he looked from right to left at chance
passers-by for applause.

Goldie stopped in front of the red, square, brick county court-house,
diagonally across the street from Smith’s Barber Shop. He removed his
hat and stood at attention, listening. Southern Arkansas architecture
sometimes shows the influence of New Orleans, especially in narrow
balconies jutting out under second-story windows. Goldie remained
looking up at the empty balcony of the court-house, from which speeches
were often delivered. Now and then he clapped his hands, nodding his
head approvingly over eloquence that came back across the years only to
him.

Everybody called Levi Goldbaum Goldie, almost entirely in affection.
For a long time he had kept his candy store open, with occasional
closures due to bankruptcies without a taint of fraud. Even in the full
flush of his middle-aged manhood he had been a frail, haggard, stooped,
feeble-looking, little man, the husband of an abnormally healthy and
handsome wife, the father of a brood of unusually vigorous boys and
girls, who grew up, married, and moved away from Asphodel, leaving him
and his wife alone in their old age.

When Goldie had attended Confederate reunions--and he attended every
one he could--or had marched with the diminishing group of old soldiers
on great occasions in Asphodel, many people, especially boys and girls
wondered if he really could have been a soldier. But there was no doubt
in the minds of the comrades who had been with him at Shiloh.

Goldie’s store having closed its doors five years before as the result
of two new competitors and inevitably final bankruptcy proceedings, he
had sadly retired. He was now over seventy, was considered a trifle
queer, and spent most of his time pottering around at home. He owned
his house, and his grown children sent him what little money he needed
to pay the last penalties of existence.

After standing listening in front of the court-house for some thirty
minutes Goldie, drawing himself as straight as he could, proceeded down
Walnut Street, turned into Broadway, and marched up that main street,
Honey Boy cavorting behind him. And there was that in Goldie’s bearing
and in his stride that drew Willie after him, and presently the little
soldier with the wounded memory got out in the street and walked along
by the side of the little soldier with the wounded mind, keeping step,
the dry dust dimming his newly shined shoes and rising in small, lazy
clouds around his white-duck trousers.

Goldie’s mind had gone back to other days when Asphodel’s citizens
had made much of June 3, Jefferson Davis’s birthday and Confederate
Memorial Day, and now he was celebrating it in his town alone, for
Asphodel, like many another Southern town, had neglected the day for
many years.

To most of those who saw the unmartial figure of Goldie and Willie and
Honey Boy marching slowly along the dusty street it did not occur that
this was the South’s Memorial Day. Goldie’s wearing of his old uniform
was not uncommon enough to be striking; many a time-beaten soldier,
reduced in circumstances, at last falls back on his most-treasured suit
for every-day wear.

But if those who saw Goldie had looked carefully they might have
noticed that, however slowly he moved, he proceeded in a straight line,
with regularly spaced steps, and they might have suspected that Goldie
was at the corner of a company invisible to all except his fading,
sunken, black eyes, marching to music unheard except by him. Most
people, indeed, gave their attention to Honey Boy, trailing directly
behind and mocking the little gray man who labored with difficulty
through the deep white sand.

It was eleven o’clock when Goldie and Willie and Honey Boy passed
Pinder’s Marble Yard and its group of waiting white angels with
downcast eyes. Pinder’s is just beyond the business section of
Asphodel, and after that the ground rises to the north and east. The
street leading to Highland Cemetery begins there, a long, tedious
hill. The sun was unclouded, the wind was still, and Goldie, his coat
carefully buttoned to the throat, was panting hard and reeling as he
made Pinder’s Marble Yard.

Wilted by the terrific heat and his violent exertions, and no longer
encouraged by laughing spectators, Honey Boy now merely followed on
behind the staggering figure marching toward Highland Cemetery, a
mile away. And Willie stalked along by his side, seeing nothing, as
if he were in a dream deeper even than Goldie’s. Now the Memorial Day
Parade was coming to the edge of Asphodel, to the section of straggling
houses. Belle Foscue, a negro washerwoman, ran to her paling fence and
asked the three chance comrades to come in and rest awhile under the
shade of her oak tree.

Goldie halted, bringing his feet together bravely. He was moving his
lips, but no words that could be heard a foot away issued from them.
Belle came out of the gate to the soldier who could not leave his
company. She bent her head close to his lips, listened, and then ran to
bring him water.

“Thank you,” he said in a whisper. “You’re a good girl.” He waited
patiently until she could bring Honey Boy another dipper filled from
the well. But when she offered the freshly filled dipper to Willie he
seemed not to see, so she turned it upside down, rolled her eyes at
him, and went back into her yard.

After a while Goldie braced himself and marched on up the red hill. At
this point the red clay beneath the cemetery road shows through the
white sand, and rains keep washed out deep and ever-deepening gullies
on both sides of it. About half-way up the hill Goldie, stubbornly
holding his position at the corner of the invisible company in spite
of the fact that the road had narrowed considerably, found himself on
the edge of a gully; and presently he lost his balance, and staggered
over into it, and rolled down to the bottom of it. Honey Boy crowed and
chortled and gurgled, and began frantically beating his unseen donkey
with the switch. Willie stood still, staring ahead, waiting.

The fallen soldier, having made two or three desperate attempts to
rise, sank back into a crumpled sitting posture, his head bent in
shame. After a while Honey Boy got down on his hands and knees in the
bed of the gully. “Ride Honey Boy,” he stuttered. “Ride up-hill. Honey
Boy strong.”

And Goldie, trying to sit astride the big boy’s broad back, fell
forward and clasped his arms around his steed’s red, sweaty neck.
Honey Boy crawled out of the gully and slowly climbed the hill with his
burden, occasionally bucking like a horse and throwing the little man
off on the road. But then he would stand patiently until the fallen
soldier could crawl up on his back again.

At the top of the hill Goldie got to his feet once more, and as the
roadbed was now level as well as firm he walked awhile and then rode
awhile on Honey Boy, and so, riding and walking, he finally marched,
with Willie at his side, through the arched gateway of Highland
Cemetery as the whistles were blowing for twelve o’clock. Old man
Miller, the sexton in charge there, and his two helpers were in a far
corner of the graveyard, so that none saw Asphodel’s Memorial Day
parade enter to honor the men Lee had loved and led.

The parade proceeded across the graveyard to a clump of oak trees
clustering about and almost hiding the grass-grown plot that is called
in Asphodel “The Confederate Cemetery.” The town had been headquarters
for a rather large body of Confederate troops during the Civil War, and
there are in the palinged enclosure nearly two hundred graves of the
men in gray who had come to their end far from their homes.

Opening the rotting gate of the paling fence, Goldie stepped inside,
Honey Boy and Willie close behind him. Here again Goldie stood in rapt
attention, his brown face shining, his head bared, and his eyes lifted,
listening to the famous orators his imagination had brought there
for this day from out of the endearing past. Honey Boy sprawled on a
rickety old iron bench. Willie stood stiffly by Goldie’s side, looking
straight ahead.

Honey Boy moved. “S-sh!” hissed Goldie in a whisper. “Senator Collamore
is speaking. Oh, he is good! I have heard him speak twenty times
before. He says this custom of setting aside a day especially to do
honor to the soldier dead originated, in this country, in the South,
though now every little town as well as every big city in the North
celebrates its Memorial Day; and he says that as long as memory lives
we of the South shall continue to pay this sincere tribute to our men
encamped beneath the green grass awaiting the bugles of a better day.”
Goldie nodded his head vigorously, softly patting his thin, little
hands together in respectful applause--softly so that he should not
disturb the speaker. “Yes, that’s good and true,” he whispered, “very
true indeed.”

“Did you hear that?” he whispered again enthusiastically after a while,
turning first toward Willie and then to Honey Boy. “That is Governor
Marcus speaking now. ‘The South is loyal,’ he says, ‘and it never
forgets.’ Ah, yes, that is so true, too.”

And so Goldie, as if some part of him sensed the fact that his two
comrades were not getting all that he was getting, from time to
time picked out and tossed to the tired and hungry boy and to his
brother-in-arms whose mind was thousands of miles away some of the
crumbs from the feast of oratory that only he could enjoy--gilded words
and fancy phrases that the little soldier had hoarded lovingly in his
memory for years.

Well, after a while the speeches were all made, but Goldie stayed
on. In other times it had been a custom in Asphodel to guard the
Confederate Cemetery the night of Memorial Day, and Goldie was certain
that he had been ordered to do guard duty that night.

Weak and hungry though he was, Goldie had been heartened by what he had
heard, and as he sat on the rusty-red old iron bench enthusiastically
talking at Honey Boy and Willie his voice was almost loud.

“Look yonder!” he cried. “Every grave is a bank of flowers. And did you
notice how many people were here? Every store and office in town must
have closed up. It’s a grand day. I’m a proud man this Memorial Day, I
can tell you. If President Davis could only see all this--and Lee! But,
there, I must not speak that last name again. If I do I’m bound to cry,
and I’m too old for that. Two words can always make me cry--‘mother’
and ‘Lee.’”

The mounds above most of the graves had been leveled by time, and over
all of them was a rank growth of weeds and grass. Honey Boy stared hard
at Goldie, then he began giggling. Suddenly his small gray eyes filled
with tears; he twisted and wrung his hands, and began whimpering,
“Honey Boy hungry. Honey Boy must go home right now.”

“Hungry?” said Goldie, in high scorn. “Why, you poor little fool, you
don’t know what hunger is. A soldier often goes two or three days on
a single meal. But wait; our ladies will presently bring a banquet
for the guard of honor--chicken and cake, strawberries and cream, and
coffee--oh, I don’t know what all, but it will be splendid. When the
South does a thing it does it splendidly.”

But the hot, damp, still afternoon wore away and no feast appeared. The
notion that he was to do guard duty that night finally drove Goldie to
consider the wisdom of fortifying himself in advance with sleep.

“You know,” he explained to the unheeding ears of Willie and Honey Boy,
“it is a serious offense to go to sleep on picket duty. In war-time it
means courtmartial. There is no punishment here and now except a man’s
conscience, but a conscience can be terrible sometimes. And do you boys
know, ever since the war whenever I’ve been assigned to any duty at
reunions or on Memorial Days I’ve had a feeling that if I didn’t do it
right _he_ would know--General Lee.”

Creeping off to a secluded, shady spot some distance from the
Confederate Cemetery, Goldie took off his coat, rolled it into a
sort of pillow, and lay down in the deep grass, now wilted by the
shimmering, moist heat. “This is how a soldier often has to sleep,” he
said proudly, looking from one to the other of his comrades.

Honey Boy, now completely subdued by hunger and thirst and fatigue,
but held by fear and perhaps also by some boyish emotion of loyalty
from deserting the little brown man in gray, sat staring at him a few
moments, and then he too sank back on the grass and closed his eyes.
Willie, his immaculate white suit of the morning wrinkled and soiled,
dropped his straw hat to the ground at his feet and sat leaning against
a stump, studying Goldie’s face intently. Except for picketing the
graves that night, Asphodel’s Memorial Day exercises in honor of its
soldier dead were over.

In the great sweet-gum tree above the three odd companions a pair
of bluejays brought frequent instalments of food to their young and
feasted them with much excitement and noisy importance. Out in the
well-kept sections of the graveyard six or seven women appeared at
various times during the afternoon, pulled a weed or a blade of grass
from a grave, put down fresh flowers, pottered lovingly about it for a
while, and then went home. But no one came to the Confederate Cemetery,
and Goldie was as still as his comrades who slept beneath the tangles
of grass and that weed called bitter. Honey Boy, waking up from time to
time, looked around hopelessly, then weepingly lay back down. Willie
continued staring at Goldie’s face, as calm as death and as sweet as
life.

Late in the afternoon slim, dazzlingly white whips of lightning slashed
about in the gray clouds that had been assembling above, thunder
tumbled and mumbled and boomed, a quick shower of rain came sliding
down the wind. It slipped under the waving branches of the tree above
the sleepers and drenched them to the skin before they were fully
awake. Willie now sat with his head leaning back against the stump,
staring at the sky. He paid no attention to the rain or to his comrades.

Honey Boy began crying, his teeth chattering with cold, and he raised
up and wrung his hands. “Oh, what is a little shower?” asked Goldie
roughly, getting to his feet. “I have marched and slept a week in wet
clothes.” Moving closer to the trunk of the sweet-gum tree, where it
was almost dry, he laid his body down again and drifted away to sleep
as sweetly as a child. Honey Boy beat his hands together and sobbed
bitterly, but finally he crept close to Goldie, rolled himself into a
ball, and was once more quiet.

And while two of them slept and one of them prowled desperately in the
darkness of his mind for a lost thread a search-party that had been
started by Mrs. Goldbaum came to the Confederate Cemetery, looked in,
called loudly Goldie’s name, and went away.

When night, and it was a heavy, clouded night, came on, Goldie rose,
put on his hat and coat, selected a fallen dead limb of a pine tree to
serve as a gun, and proceeded to his post. Honey Boy stumbled along
close behind him, now and then breaking out in a huge bellow of
desperation. “Shut up!” hissed Goldie. “Have you no respect for the
dead?”

But the frail, little, old soldier himself, reeling with weakness,
often caught hold of the fence to steady his trembling legs. He was
so tired that at the corners he sometimes stopped and rested his head
against the flat-topped posts. But he had not been relieved of duty, so
he kept on marching around the enclosure, often stumbling and falling
in the dark, but always getting up and forcing himself along. Honey Boy
flung himself into the deep grass near the paling fence and lay there
moaning. Willie stood, a dozen yards away, against a tree intently
studying Goldie.

Meanwhile searching parties were excitedly combing Asphodel and its
environs for the missing men and Honey Boy; and some time after
midnight a party made a second trip to the Confederate Cemetery. As the
searchers approached, their lanterns and blazing pine-knots burning
ragged yellow holes in the night, Goldie tried to shout and almost did
shout, “Halt!”

“Is that you, Goldie?” some one called.

“This is Private Levi Goldbaum.”

“What are you doing out here, man? Your wife is crazy; she thinks
you’re dead. Where have you been all day? You’re wet to the skin now,
I’ll bet. You look like it, anyhow. What in the world are you doing
here?”

“I took part in our Memorial Day exercises, of course. Now I am on
picket duty, guarding the graves of my comrades. I should have been
relieved at midnight, but I reckon something went wrong. Anyway, I
couldn’t go until I was relieved, could I? Answer me that, Mr. Smarty.
Don’t come any nearer. You can’t get through unless you’ve got the
password. It’s a point of honor. I don’t care a rap who you are. Halt,
there, you!”

Goldie stood up straight now, his bayonet pointing at the imprudent
person who had come too near. The lights flickered over his frail
figure, touching with yellow, beneath his slouch hat, the lower half
of his cleanly shaven face, revealing the pale, thin, old lips drawn
tightly across his false teeth.

The invaders gathered to talk among themselves, and as they whispered
Goldie’s gun drooped slightly in his hands, dropped lower, and then the
little old man moaned and crumpled stiffly to his knees.

He tried to rise and did, and fell again. He whispered, “Halt! You
can’t pass here. It’s a point of honor, you see. If General Lee found
out he would be--would be sorry for me.”

But the guard of honor had been relieved.

In his tracks stood another little soldier, this one clothed in white
and shining with strength and fire and authority.

“Take him home, boys, but don’t step across the line he set. Don’t,
don’t, I tell you! This is no joke. Lift him up gently now. He dropped
just like my buddy over there--the picture, with the lights and
everything, was just exactly the same. He has reminded me in a thousand
ways all day of my buddy. But he’s only cold and hungry; my buddy was
warm and dead. Take him home now, and when he comes to tell him not to
worry; another soldier who remembers is covering his post. And General
Lee will never know.”


FOOTNOTES:

     [4] Copyright, 1925, by The Pictorial Review Company.
         Copyright, 1926, by Barry Benefield.




                        THE BEGGAR OF ALCAZAR[5]

                           By KONRAD BERCOVICI

                      (From _The Century Magazine_)


Every Spaniard will tell you that Spain has the most beautiful women
in the world. Every man from Andalusia, richly colored, sun-tinted,
green-mountained Andalusia, will tell you that Andalusian women are
the most beautiful of Spain; for have they not the smoothness and the
hue of olive fruit and hair like black silk? And the men of Seville,
the capital of Andalusia, old Seville with its crooked streets upon
which abut blind walls, whitewashed and high-windowed--Seville, towered
and domed by a thousand old churches and cathedrals and palaces built
of huge stone mellowed and softened by biting time, Seville with its
leisurely coursing river, the Guadalquivir, the great river, named so
by the Moors in olden times, but which can be waded across at some
times of the year; every Sevillan, prouder of the women of his town
than of all the other marvels it contains, will tell you that the women
of Seville are the most beautiful of the Province of Andalusia.

And Maria del Alcazar was the most beautiful woman of Seville.

She was the daughter of Don Hermanos, the head keeper of the Alcazar,
the old palace of the Moors, planned and executed at the time when the
Saracens had glided above the peak of virility and had become softened
and fattened from tribute paid by vanquished nations, and effeminate
from a long period of peace and the affluence come from plunder.

Maria’s father, Don Hermanos, had obtained the post of keeper in lieu
of compensation for injuries he had sustained while fighting the wild
tribes of the Spanish possessions in Africa. She was only ten years
old when the family moved into one of the little whitewashed huts
within the inclosure of the palace destined for the keeper. Black-eyed,
with lustrous black hair, fine and silky like ebony filaments falling
over her ivory-white neck, full-lipped, with a delicate chin, she was
the pride of the family. Her mother, who came from Granada, instilled
into her daughter that love for beautiful things and soft colors which
had come to her with the blood of Moors that flowed in her veins. And
with that she had also given to Maria that sinuous, graceful gait
which holds both of the tiger and the angel--an imperceptible glide
with slightly bent knees, while the arms sway softly like movements of
invisible wings.

The Hermanos family had come to live at the Alcazar from one of the
houses in the Triana, the crowded, squalid section across the river,
where the poor of Seville live. The hut in which they had lived
there was one in an immense yard in which fifty more little houses,
leaning one on another, formed an open square; a _Casa Vesinante_ of
the neighborhood. There was not much difference between the hut they
were occupying in the Alcazar and it, and the mother and the father
were frequently complaining about the uncomfortable and dilapidated
condition of their new home. But not so Maria. She was not complaining,
for she had the Alcazar all to herself. Daily, before the arrival
of visitors from all over the world who came to see the old Moorish
palace, and in the evenings after they had left, the big palace, with
its jewel-studded, mosaic-wrought wings, with its stalactite ceilings,
like frozen skies of crystal tears, and the ceramic walls, with the
lemon alleys in the gardens and the intoxicating flowers and shrubs,
with roses bigger than the full moon and redder than the reddest blood,
with cypresses in pools of water and rose-veined marble colonnades
and alleys, the whole palace belonged to her. It was hers to roam
wherever she pleased, sit wherever she wanted, and dream her dreams.
The very greatest treasure of the world was hers. For nowhere, nowhere
she knew, was any other palace the like of that to be found in the
universe. Roaming daily, she discovered for herself new treasures
which were unknown to others. The beautiful marble columns that stuck
out underneath the overlaid brick near the bathing-pool of the sultana,
the paintings on the walls, which had stupidly been smeared over by
careless repairers after the Moors had been driven out of Spain,
the carved oak beams inlaid with mother-of-pearl mosaic in what was
formerly the dressing room of the harem, and which had lain covered
with cement. And panels of wood sawed so finely they were transparent
when the light shone through them, and others cut so finely they
were like spiderwebs, and which had lain there perhaps for centuries
unobserved by any one, were hers to look at, hers alone, undefiled by
other eyes, hers to bathe in their lacy softness of color and line.

True, she had to come into the hut late in the night and lie down on
the bed within the squalid hut. But long before sunrise she would take
her blanket and run out into the palace to sleep on the marble couch of
the sultana, which faced the fountain of the Room of the Ambassadors;
where once the sultan of the Saracens received the representatives of
other nations, dressed in glittering silken garments, while black,
nude, oiled slaves piled soft cushions under the guests and offered
them refreshments in golden trays and from long silver vases.

The family had not been there long before all the keepers and the
people in the neighborhood loved Maria. Shortly after their instalment,
their daughter became known as “Maria del Alcazar.” Not because people
felt that she belonged to the Alcazar, but that the Alcazar belonged to
her. She could tell such beautiful stories of the things she saw. She
kept them all entranced when she spoke of the palace and its beauties.
No one referred to her as the daughter of Hermanos the keeper. She was
Maria del Alcazar to the neighbors, Maria del Alcazar to the priest, as
well as to the working-men continually busy restoring and fixing what
should better be left as it was.

And after a few years the reputation of Maria’s beauty spread far
and wide, as spreads a river after it has gone out from its bed. And
many were the young men who, dressed in their best velvet, pale blue
and dark brown, costumes, with wide-brimmed _flamenco_ hats in their
hands, now came to visit the Alcazar after their afternoon siesta,
paying their good _pesetas_ for the hope of catching a glimpse of
Maria. They loitered and looked interested in the walls and gardens
and trees and pools and fountains, but their long-lashed eyes were
continually watching for an apparition. And many of them carried their
guitars under their coats to begin their courting then and there
should occasion present itself. The whole young malehood of Triana,
remembering her as a child, would come to bid _buenos dias_ to her
father, with the hope of catching a glimpse of his daughter.

But during the day Maria was busy helping her mother. She had no
interest in the Alcazar during that time. It belonged to strangers who
came from all the corners of the world, to tread with unsympathetic
feet the ground she considered holy and defile with their eyes and
harsh voices, whispering, and pointing to one another the walls and the
gardens she loved so much. It was only after they had gone that the
Alcazar belonged to Maria, and after they had gone, all had to go. And
so, reluctantly, the young men of Triana turned their backs and slowly
shuffled out of the palace after the keeper had called out the evening
hour. They would then remain outside the gate, waiting yet, pining
for a glimpse before sighing deeply and departing slowly to their
homes. And the young women of Triana bitterly clamored that because of
Maria they were themselves unsung and unwooed by the young men of the
neighborhood.

All this was happening unknown to Maria, for she lived not in this
world. And after the late autumn had shaken the leaves of the crooked,
brown-trunked olive trees in the garden and made the ceramic walls
colder than they had ever been, she was the undisputed owner, the only
one to enjoy the marvels of the Alcazar all to herself. While the
winter rains were beating down upon the town of Seville, thus keeping
away the visitors, Maria was happy. She grew and developed very fast,
looking more and more like one of the Moorish sultanas who had for
centuries queened over the palace. She imagined herself to be one
of them, never thinking of sultans; as if the place had never been
peopled by any others but women. For there seemed to be no trace of
any male residence there. The delicate tracery of the rooms and the
alcoves, every nook and corner, seemed to her to have been erected by
delicate and whimsical hands of angels who had first dreamed about all
this on some huge canvas which they had embroidered upon.

And yet work was going on continually, repairing here and there, and
reconstructing. It seemed to her outrageous that the hands of men
should have any right to touch such divinely delicate dreams in wood
and stone. More than once she spoke angrily to the architect who was
directing the work, telling him again and again the old Moorish legend
current to this day all through Andalusia, that the Alcazar was never
built, but appeared one day, called thither by the magic wand of some
great magician in the employ of the sultan.


                                   II

One afternoon early in the spring, when the buds in the lemon trees
had begun to burst and had spread their little sweet-sour blossoms
all over the place, Jose, the bullfighter, a lad who had already won
his first spurs in the bull-ring of Seville--Jose who had been one of
her neighbors while they were living in Triana, stopped on his way
to the ring to see Don Hermanos. He had been attracted by tales of
the beauty of Maria del Alcazar, and had for a long time tried to see
her without succeeding. But dressed in the costume of the matador,
with a gold-laced black cap on his head, and a colored, spangled coat
over the narrow, red-velvet breeches, tightened at the knees over the
white stockings with green tassels, Don Jose felt he could dare make
the attempt to see her. He braved bulls; why should he step back from
meeting a woman?

While the hundred and one urchins cried, “There goes Don Jose!” he
crossed into the vaulted entrance of the Alcazar and was received at
the gate by Don Hermanos, who had been attracted by the outside noise.

“What great honor!” bowed Maria’s father, shaking the decoration
dangling on his breast.

“The honor indeed is mine,” answered Don Jose, bowing profoundly. “For,
if you recall, we have been neighbors in Triana. And my mother has
repeatedly spoken of Doña Hermanos, your wife, and of Señorita Maria.”

“May I lead you through the Alcazar, if you want to see it?” Don
Hermanos asked, while the other keepers had gathered about him and were
looking at the handsome young matador with great admiration.

“I shall follow you with pleasure,” Jose answered.

And throwing a handful of copper and silver to the urchins following
him, he walked rhythmically behind Don Hermanos, while the other
keepers were complimenting upon his recent exploits.

Jose was just a little over twenty, with the brown young eyes matured
from facing danger and death, although only a thin down covered his
long upper lip. He was not very tall, but so well proportioned that he
looked taller than he really was. He was even then only a short hour
from one of the battles in the great bull-ring.

“It is curious,” he said wistfully to Don Hermanos, catching up with
him and putting an arm familiarly on his shoulder, much to the envy of
the other keepers who followed behind, “but I have never been in the
Alcazar, and had thought of coming only after an Englishman with whom
I had become acquainted had spoken to me so enthusiastically about its
beauties. To live near such beauty and never see it!”

Don Hermanos was now showing him the oak-beamed and mosaic ceiling of
the reception hall.

“Beautiful!” exclaimed the bull-fighter, with ecstasy.

From the other end of the hall Maria was coming from the garden. She
had been dreaming by herself when she heard the approaching noise
of the heavily shod feet of the keepers coming in her direction,
and wondered what it could be, since it was not yet the season for
tourists. Shy, like a curious young doe, she glided noiselessly into
the presence of the group. She was wrapped in an old green shawl, and
her bare feet were in white, soft-soled slippers. Her hair, which she
had just washed in the sultana’s fountain, was hanging loosely over her
ivory-white neck and shoulders. She made as if to retrace her steps
when she saw Don Jose, but Jose was much too quick, the very instant of
her appearance he had called out:

“There goes Señorita Maria. How beautiful she has grown! There goes
Señorita Maria! How wonderful she has grown! Of course she does not
remember me any more,” he added petulantly and uncovered his head,
bowing elegantly.

“Come over, Maria,” her father called. “It is Jose. You certainly do
remember him, although you have never seen him in this garb.”

Maria slowly approached the group and curtsied ceremoniously before the
young man.

“What beauty!” exclaimed the bull-fighter, brutally and frankly looking
the girl in the face, as only a Spaniard would.

It made Maria tremble from head to foot to be looked at in that way.
But she answered promptly:

“Of course I do remember Doña Gloria’s son. And I recollect having been
told that he was occasionally fighting bulls in the small _pueblos_.”

“He is fighting in the rings of Seville and Madrid now,” Don Hermanos
corrected her. “See his matador costume.”

Maria looked at the young man, and then with a loud laugh she suddenly
rushed past him and disappeared, faun-like, before he had had time to
turn, for he was looking at Don Hermanos while he was spoken of.

Don Hermanos showed the bull-fighter the other great halls of the
Alcazar, but Jose was not half as interested as before. He was
continually looking elsewhere through the open portals and gates,
through the openings of the narrow alleys and subterranean halls.

“This used to be the great dancing hall of the sultan. This is the dais
upon which the _bayaderes_ danced. And, further, on the other side,
upon this black-veined marble block, many a beautiful slave has lost
her head if she had been unfaithful to the sultan, or if such was his
pleasure.”

But the bull-fighter was not much interested. He suddenly pulled out
his heavy gold watch from his pocket, and announced that he had to be
on his way to the ring, but that he would return frequently and see at
his leisure the wonders and the beauties of the Alcazar, adding, “Of
which your daughter Maria is the most beautiful.”

Don Hermanos bowed profoundly. True, he had known Jose when he was the
ragged scamp of the Triana, but a bull-fighter is a high personage, and
what such a man said about his daughter was not to be disdained.

On the way out, Don Jose asked whether he could not get a drink of
water, of which he was in need. Don Hermanos knew that it was a pretext
to stop at the house for a few moments. Don Hermanos’s wife received
the young bull-fighter, bowing profoundly, patting him, admiring him,
wishing him good luck, asking him how his mother was and how his
sisters were. But the beautiful Maria was not around.

Jose listened carefully, while the old woman spoke to him and while the
men stood about him in admiration, to hear some one breathing behind
the curtain that separated the room in two. He listened for a sound
behind the door at the top of the stairs that led to the upper rooms
from the middle of the lower one. And then his eyes saddened, and he
was ready to go, when the Doña Hermanos told him:

“But the water you have asked for, Don Jose? The glass of water is on
the table. Have you forgotten you were thirsty?”

He laughed loudly as he stood up and drank the glass.

“Indeed, I have forgotten,” he said.

And then the keepers looked at one another and smiled as they preceded
Jose outside, each one patting him familiarly on the shoulder.

“Are they good bulls, the ones you are fighting today, big and fierce?”

“Wonderful animals,” Don Jose answered, “Miuras.”

“Miuras!” they all repeated aloud, with eyes wide open, saying to one
another: “Do you hear? Miuras today in the bull-ring of Seville!”

And in the glances they exchanged with one another was all the lore
of the bull-ring; for the bulls bred by Count Miura were reputed to
be the fiercest of all, having killed many a great matador who had
appeared with them in the ring. And it seemed to Don Jose that at that
moment he heard from behind the latticed window overhead a deep gasp.
His chest broadened, and his heart rose higher as he walked out of the
gate, marching with the same rhythm he used coming out from the big
door that led into the arena, while music played the matador tune.


                                  III

An hour later Maria was sitting on the marble bench in the garden of
the sultana, and had a vision of an immense arena divided in half by
a strong shadow, with tiers of stone seats and balconies covered with
shawls of a hundred gay colors, and the queen herself sitting in the
king’s balcony. A black bull was in the middle of the arena, with head
bent low, snorting and bellowing, pawing the sand under him. Don Jose
with a red _capa_ hiding the red-hilted spade underneath, was facing
the brute.

A moment later her father and the other keepers were attracted to her
by a terrific shriek. She was hiding her face in her hands and yelling:
“The bull! The bull!” when they neared her.

“That child of yours does not seem to be well,” said a keeper to Don
Hermanos after Maria had been led weeping to her home.

But Don Hermanos smiled. He knew what the trouble was. A great matador
as a son-in-law was a pleasant prospect for his daughter.

Maria drank a glass of water which was given her by her mother, and
seemed to have regained her composure immediately. She went to the
mirror to fix her hair, and having looked at herself carefully, she
proceeded to dress to go out. She asked her mother to accompany her. No
self-respecting Sevillana would ever go out alone. Maria had till then,
considering herself a child, always gone about alone. Her mother smiled
as she answered:

“Give me time to get ready!”

It took the mother a full hour to get herself ready. On going out into
the populated street, cool now because the sun was no longer shedding
its straight rays, the two women heard the cry of the barefoot boys in
rags selling papers. Don Jose had been wounded severely by the first
bull he had fought.

“Quick, Mother!” Maria begged, and dragging the old woman by the hand
she began to run in the direction of her old home in the Triana, where
she was certain Don Jose would be brought to his mother.

But on arriving there they were told that the Gitanas had moved out
from the “Casa” to a more comfortable home, now that Jose was earning
so much money. And when the former neighbors heard about the accident
that had happened, they left their cooking-pots, and the children left
their play in the mud, and howling and running they followed the two
women to the home of the matador.

Jose’s face was white from the loss of blood. He was lying stretched
out on a white bed. A number of friends and the priest and a doctor
crowded the room.

“Will he die?” Maria screamed, looking up at the physician.

The man shook his head and put a finger to his mouth.

“No noise, please.”

And then Jose opened his eyes and saw Maria; and his faint lips
murmured her name.

Jose did get better; he had not been wounded in any vital part of his
body. He was only weak because of the blood he had lost before they had
succeeded in driving away the bull that had gored him. Daily, Maria and
her mother would come to sit at his bedside and care for him. When the
wounds in his upper thighs had healed, it was upon Maria’s shoulder
that he first left the bed to sun himself on the balcony. And with that
marvelous recuperating power of youth he was able before the summer to
appear again in the ring.

Maria sat in a box with her mother watching the first appearance. And
the cheering of the crowd as he bowed before the balcony of the queen
was deafening. Maria, paler than usual, was not interested in the
bull-fight as such. To her it was merely the man she loved who was now
facing a formidable brute. It was her man that was in danger--in danger
of that black bull, snorting and running wildly about the arena. She
could not appreciate the cheers that came, round after round, as Don
Jose with graceful fleetness avoided the charging animal by fooling him
with the red _capa_ that he held in his hand. She could not understand
why he did not use the spade and kill the brute. To her mind every bull
was the same that had wounded the man she loved.

The crowd cheered and yelled in appreciation of their idol’s dangerous
play. Suddenly there was a great silence. The _banderilleros_ had done
their work and distanced themselves from the animal. The matador alone
faced him now. He played and enraged the bull for a few minutes, then
he poised himself with his spade for the final thrust. But when the
bull made a movement, courage failed him, and he stepped aside. And the
same crowd that had been cheering so wildly now began to hoot him. The
other matadors sprang to his help and began to throw their red _capas_
over the bull. Don Jose shook his head sorrowfully without looking up,
and waving his quadrilla aside, he again posed himself before the bull,
trying to get him to lower his head. There was silence again. Maria’s
heart stood still. And while the crowd was hooting again the matador,
who had side-stepped for a second time, her own heart was glad, for he
was there yet and alive. Her mother and the mother of the matador were
pale with anger and shame. What had happened to Jose? The bugle gave a
warning to the matador that he must be quick about his business. His
time was up. And this time the matador did not side-step. His thrust
was sure and deep, and the crowd cheered wildly, although when the
ring had been cleared, the _afficianadoes_ were looking at one another
and shaking their heads, as if saying, “The best days of the Gitana
are over.” Never before in his short, but glorious, career had he been
known to side-step a charging bull.

He did not do much better with the second animal. And it was only
because they remembered how severely he had been wounded before that
the crowd did not do the usual things on such occasions, throwing the
hard cushions underneath them into the arena, and even empty bottles
and stones. Even Jose’s mother looked coldly at her son when he
returned home with her in the waiting carriage, for the papers were
sure to report his lack of courage. Only Maria was happy. He had come
out of the fight alive and he had killed the bulls.

The next few weeks took the matador out of the city to fight in other
_pueblos_. It was understood that he was going to marry Maria as soon
as he returned from the season’s activities. Left alone, Maria, now
the acknowledged fiancée of Don Jose, again took possession of the
Alcazar. But everything within it was now filled with Joses. Joses in
silken garb. Joses in the center of bull-rings. Joses wounded, Joses
side-stepping, and crowds upon tiers and tiers in a large circle. She
tried to conjure again the old visions of sultanas and _bayaderes_
dancing in the great halls and in the gardens. And when they did
appear, Don Jose was somewhere about them. And she would harshly
order her vision figures to disappear, for they all looked at him so
longingly. And they were all so much more beautiful than she was.

She would wait trembling with fear the afternoons she knew he had
appeared in the distant bull-rings for a telegram that he sent her at
the end of every _corrida_. He gave no details, only telling her that
all was well and that he loved her. But in reality things were not as
well with him as they had been before. There was great doubt whether
he would ever be engaged again to fight in the bull-ring after that
season. There was great dissatisfaction with his work. He still gave
them great thrills in playing with the bull, but courage generally
failed him when he faced the animal with spade in hand. He could not
forget that he had been wounded. And he played longer with the animals
than he should have done to avoid as long as possible the last moment.
And again and again the warning bugle had sounded, the papers reported.
Don Hermanos was far from being satisfied with his future son-in-law.
Yet all Maria cared was that Jose was alive and untouched by the brutal
beasts.

She rejoiced to the fullest of her soul when he returned. Only Don
Hermanos was not satisfied to see him walk about in street clothes
instead of the matador uniform, like the others of his profession.
Every day after sundown Jose would come to the Alcazar, and Maria would
show him the great halls and the gardens and tell him the legends of
the place. She had found again the Alcazar now that he was near her.
Speaking to him, all the old charm of the palace had returned. She was
not even jealous of the sultanas she now conjured from the ceramic
walls and from behind the balconies overhead.

As the day of her wedding approached, Don Jose spoke to her.

“How will you ever be able to live within the poor walls of your home
after having lived here amid such great beauties?”

Maria laughed and laughed. Don Jose intended to leave Seville and
go elsewhere. He had saved quite a goodly amount of money. He had
premonitions about his being killed in the ring if he should continue
to fight next season. An old sorceress had told him so also. He had
different plans. He thought sheep-raising upon the Saragoza Hills
pleased him best. He owned there quite a good stretch of land. And
there was an old adobe house on top of the hill. He thought it was
better to live in seclusion for the next year or so than being hooted
and reviled in the bull-ring. Maria was willing to follow him anywhere.

And he told her: “When my feelings change, I will return to the ring.”

“Which I hope you will never do!” Maria exclaimed.

She had no desire to see her husband glorified by the multitude after
he had been gored to death in the ring.


                                   IV

It was a great affair, the wedding of Don Jose with Maria del Alcazar.
All the retired and active matadors of Seville came to the wedding in
their bespangled clothes, for they understood what the populace refused
to understand. They knew what premonitions were and how they acted on a
matador in the ring. It was easy to cheer and easier to hoot, but bulls
carried death on the tips of their horns.

A week later the two newly married were in the Saragoza adobe. It
was not much better than the home in which their people had lived in
the Triana. Still, Maria thought it was very beautiful. The bare mud
walls she decorated with her eyes, which reflected all the beauties
they had absorbed. And through them she projected her dreams, the
delicate traceries and colorings, and the mosaic and the stalactite of
the ceilings. And she was happy. For there were no working-men tearing
down and repairing and touching with brutal hands what was about her.
And from the top of the hill the olive groves and vineyards and the
tall cypress trees that stretched below her were even more beautiful
than the gardens in which she had roamed. And the serpentining, snaking
river below, shimmering with the blue of the sky in the sunlight,
was like the limpid water pools and bathing places of the Alcazar.
Indeed, it was more the Alcazar than anything else. And it was hers. No
working-men, no visitors, disturbed her.

Jose was busy building sheds for the sheep. And evenings his powerful
arms were delicately wrapped about her. He appreciated her love and was
flattered that she could be so happy in such poor surroundings. And he
wondered what there was in him that she, the most beautiful woman in
the world, should be able to stay with him in so desolate a place, away
from all the things she had been accustomed to. In his eyes she was not
a poor girl, the daughter of a keeper, that he had married. She was
Maria del Alcazar, the one raised in surroundings so beautiful there
was none the like of them in the world. Evenings, when the work was
done, the two lovers would face each other, sitting outside their hut.

And one evening Don Jose said:

“There never happened a better thing to me than to have been gored by a
bull.”

To which Maria quietly answered, seizing the hands of the man near her:

“And yet I hate bulls.”

But the courage did not return to Don Jose. Month succeeded month.
And after the long winter was over, the first winter they had passed
together, he was approached to appear again in the ring. Refusing, he
wondered whether the courage would ever return to him again. He hung
his head when the man tried to convince him by saying:

“You, who have received the applause of thousands and thousands while
so young, should now live in the company of sheep and mules on the top
of a hill! You who have received thousands of _pesetas_ for one hour of
work, and been glorified by the whole of Spain, should now work so hard
with the hope of getting a pittance at the end of the year! And your
wife, Don Jose. Don’t forget your wife.”

But Don Jose shook his head and answered:

“Not this year.”

And when the men who had come to engage him left his house, they
said to each other: “Many a good matador has become better and more
courageous to win the woman he loved, only to become a coward for fear
of losing her.”

Maria was happy that he refused. She did not understand why every time
these men returned Jose should be so sullen and dark. Oh, were they
not happy there on top of the mountain? And were they not living in
the most beautiful palace that man had ever built? If it was true the
Alcazar had never been built, but had been conjured up by the wand of
some great magician, an even greater magician had conjured the greater
Alcazar she was living in now. She had always, she realized now, missed
something when she had been living in the Alcazar of Seville. Now she
knew what she had missed. There were only walls and ceilings. Even the
phantoms she conjured were cold despite all the warm colors about them.
But there on the Saragoza Hills she had realized and filled out her
dream. Draperies, heavy silks came down, called by the magic of her
love, and covered everything, and uncovered greater beauties on softer
backgrounds.

But Jose walked about sullenly, muttering to himself:

“It was a bad day for me when that bull gored me. It was a bad day for
me when that bull gored me.” He missed the applause, the cheering, the
excitement. And yet he did not have the courage.

And one day, when he had returned from the village at the foot of the
hill, instead of recalling as he had frequently done the beautiful days
during which Maria had sat at his bedside, he spoke angrily to her,
and she could recognize the smell of _aguardiente_, burning water, on
his breath.

“It was because of you that I was gored by the bull! I was thinking of
you instead of the beast before me! You are the cause of my misfortune!”

And suddenly, when she reëntered the hut, the walls appeared as they
really were, dirty mud walls. The ceilings which she had enlarged and
domed with her eyes, and beamed and wrought with mosaics, appeared to
her as they really were, cracked, low, and ugly. The rickety bed which
stood in the corner, which had been to her like the richest couch of
the most beautiful sultana, was nothing but a squalid heap of rusty
iron, rags, and mattresses. The low-burning lamp had lost its mystic
quality. It was but an ill-smelling kerosene lamp. All the riches
of the adobe were gone. It had been conjured by the magic wand of a
sorcerer, and been dispelled by a few ugly words. And so she lay down
and wept.

When she awoke in the morning, the squalor of her surroundings was even
more appalling. The sheep, which had been so beautiful, were now ugly.
And the mountain and the river and the olive groves and the vineyards
were nothing but ugly, brown, crooked cripples scorching in the hot
sun. It was worse than the Triana mud huts in which she had lived. And
Jose himself, Jose himself, what a different man he was! An unwashed,
unkempt, rag-clothed stranger, with a hard voice and an evil odor.

A few months later, another group of men came to induce Don Jose to
appear again in the bull-ring. He assured them he would do so the
following spring.

“But where is Doña Maria, his wife, of whose beauty we have heard so
much? The woman we have seen could not have been she, for she looked so
much older and anything but beautiful.” The men looked at one another
outside.

Indeed, where was she?

For none of them realized that a single year could have changed a woman
so much. She wandered about mute, listless. Her eyes were lusterless
and her gaze vacant.

And he did get back his courage the following spring. And he again
became the favorite of the people. There were pictures of him hanging
in every store and every home from one end of Spain to the other. He
was piling up great wealth and had furnished a beautiful apartment,
more beautiful than he had ever expected to live in, with a profusion
of silks and carpets and silver vases and copper urns. He thought Maria
had been made unhappy by the poverty of her surroundings, the fool.

It was all in vain. He could not make it as beautiful as the Alcazar.
It was squalid, poor, ugly, decrepit tinsel compared with the gold of
the palace, and more so when compared with the gold of her dreams,
which he had destroyed once forever.

When he had withdrawn from the ring rich and honored, she returned to
her father’s home. And before she was thirty, when her father died,
unable to leave the Alcazar, she sat outside its gates. Her face
withered. The skin of her hands dried up like parchment. She still sits
there, wrapped in rags, begging from the tourists.

But after sundown the Alcazar is hers.


FOOTNOTES:

     [5] Copyright, 1925, by The Century Company.
         Copyright, 1926, by Konrad Bercovici.




                              THE LAUGH[6]

                             By BELLA COHEN

                 (From _The Calendar of Modern Letters_)


Meyer lay on the bed, the covers drawn up over his mouth. His thin,
long nose projected over the quilt seemed very long and wax-like; and
his eyes were closed. His feet stuck out beyond the edge of the bed,
for Meyer was a tall man, and illness seemed to have stretched him out.

Hannah, his wife, stood near the bed, looking down upon him
sorrowfully, her fingers patching her mouth.

“A man who has never been sick in his life to fall so sick. And he only
fifty years old--the best years,” she thought.

She turned from the bed and silently began to clean the rooms she and
Meyer had lived in for the last eight years. Every now and then she
stopped to look at the man in the bed.

“It seems so strange for him to be in the house with me and yet not say
a word to me.” Hannah spoke to herself. “I don’t like that white sheet
over the quilt.”

Hannah carefully placed the broom in the corner near the stove and
pattered over to the wooden trunk where she kept her red shawl. A
close, layer-like smell of moth balls and unaired clothing lifted
itself sluggishly and receded. The red shawl was near the top. It had
white stripes and was made of sheep’s fleece. Hannah had knitted and
dyed the shawl when she was still young and wore a black plait down her
back.

She placed the red shawl over the sick man’s feet, but they persisted
in sticking out--their long, misshapen toes digging into each other
with soles as hard as leather. They stood up stiffly perpendicular.

Hannah looked at them and a strange terror gripped her. Her Meyer was
sick. Her Meyer was very sick! Desperately, she thought of the House.
Perhaps she had better call Mrs. Brandt. Some one....

A knock sounded.

Hannah hurried to the door and opening it softly, looked up into the
ruddy, round face of her sister Brahne.

“You!” she cried delightedly. For a moment, the sadness left her eyes.
She was no longer alone--all alone--for now, if only for a few moments,
she had her sister with her. Some one of her own blood.

“Yes, here I am!” And Brahne stepped into the room. Everything in it
became dwarfed, for Brahne was large, large of feet, hands, head,
mouth, teeth, and voice. By lifting her hand she could have flattened
its palm on the ceiling as easily as she carried her twins on each hip.

The two looked at each other, for they had not seen each other for a
year. Brahne had moved her bakery, her husband and children into a
suburb, and Hannah, who could not ride in cars because it made her
dizzy, did not visit her.

“Meyer is sick, very sick,” Hannah finally said. Her hand went up to
her mouth again.

Brahne turned to the bed and looked at the man.

“He doesn’t seem so bad,” she decided. “What is it, a cold?”

“No, it’s something more. The doctor wouldn’t tell me. I think it’s his
heart.”

“Heart! That’s how much you know about men.”

Brahne seated herself and discoursed in bellows.

“Men are children. They don’t know how to bear even a scratch on the
finger. They get a little cold and right away they want to go to
Coloraydo and get consumption. They want to be petted and fondled like
a month-old baby. The more attention you give them the more they want.
Many times I think to myself, why do they send men to fight in the wars
when they are such weaklings!”

Hannah listened meekly, her hand on her mouth.

“Maybe that’s true what you say, Brahne,” she offered timidly, “but
Meyer is now laying like this the third week. And, you know, he’s never
been sick since we’ve been married.”

The tears formed in her eyes and dropped down her cheeks.

Brahne’s large, limpid eyes wandered from the sick man’s face to his
feet. The red shawl threw a new light into her eyes.

Hannah wiped the tears away as she mumbled:

“God should spare him for me. If he should die----”

“Die!” scoffed Brahne, with difficulty shifting her eyes from the shawl
to the man’s face. “People don’t die so fast.”

The sick man stirred and the cover moved down from his mouth. He was
smiling.

Brahne rose from her chair and walked heavily to the bed. She beckoned
her sister.

“See!” she said. “He’s not sick. He’s smiling. A man who sees Death
doesn’t smile, hah Meyer?”

The sick man did not open his eyes nor move at all at the sound of his
name. But the smile was still there.

“I could make him laugh!” Brahne wagered.

“Laugh!” her sister repeated, sadly. “What wouldn’t I give to hear him
laugh again!”

Brahne looked at the red shawl, lips drawn in, one eye half shut.

“Well,” she said finally, “would you give me the red shawl if I made
him laugh?”

Again the hand went up to the mouth, and Hannah considered. Brahne had
always wanted that red shawl she knew.

She nodded.

“Yes,” she finally assented. “But you must make him laugh.”

Brahne leaned over the bed and tickled the soles of those stiff feet. A
broad smile already stretched across her face.

“Hah, Meyer,” she called out, “don’t think you can fool me!”

Again she trailed her large, square fingers over the calloused feet.
A slight trembling took hold of the man. His toes began to wriggle
stiffly--creakingly.

“Well, Meyer, how about a little laugh?” Brahne called cheerfully.
Hannah stood over her husband, her hand almost hiding her mouth. Now
and then she looked at her sister.

Brahne bent to her task with determined lips. She no longer smiled. She
wanted that red shawl. This time she played on the soles as if she were
playing the piano. Then she changed to a quick tattoo. A weak, little
gurgle issued from the parted lips of the man, but his eyes did not
open.

“Well, Meyer,” shouted Brahne. “You can do better than that!”

She tickled those stiff feet with the full vigour of her strong
fingers. And, suddenly, the covers flew back and the red shawl dropped
to the floor. A ringing laugh cut the silence of the room. The sick
man laughed again and again like a hysterical girl, but his eyes never
opened.

Brahne, her hands on her hips, joined in lustily, and even Hannah
smiled tenderly and without sadness.

Suddenly the laugh broke into two and the man stiffened from head to
toes. The lips drew themselves together slowly and painfully, and then
they were still. The soul of Meyer had fled on the back of a laugh.

“Brahne!” Hannah screamed. “Brahne!”

“What’s the matter?”

But Hannah had already fallen on her knees beside the bed, moaning:

“He is dead! My husband is dead! My husband is dead!”

Brahne, big and powerful, looked down upon the dead man and the weeping
woman with a puzzled look in her stupid eyes.

“But anyway I made him laugh,” she said. “The red shawl is mine.”


FOOTNOTES:

     [6] Copyright, 1926, by Bella Cohen.




                        THE HANDS OF THE ENEMY[7]

                        By CHARLES CALDWELL DOBIE

                       (From _Harper’s Magazine_)

Within a hundred yards of the hill’s crest Walton Pringle’s pocket
flash winked spasmodically and died. He paused a moment to catch his
breath; the pull up from the creek bed had winded him and the sting of
cold rain in his face added a further discomfort. If he hadn’t dawdled
at Preston’s Flat, hoping for the rain to cease or abate, he would have
made his objective before nightfall. But since he had elected to wait
so long it would have been much better to continue there until next
morning. As it was, he felt sure that he had strayed from the trail--a
particularly unhappy thought to a man who could claim only a speaking
acquaintance with the wilderness. And this too under the pall of a
stormy night without the slightest ray of light to guide him. Well, the
best he could do was to stumble on: it was far better to keep moving in
circles than to resign himself to inactivity and chills.

He was glad now that he had been persuaded to take a pistol when he
came away from Walden’s Glen. If he were lost, at least he could
provide himself with game, and in the mountains one could never tell
how long one might wander aimlessly along false paths once the proper
trail was abandoned. At first this pistol business had seemed absurd:
California was no longer a bandit country, and even if it were he had
nothing worth stealing. A jack-knife, a pocket-flash, two bars of
chocolate, and a sheaf of notes on “Itinerant and Rural Labor and Its
Relation to Crime” were poor pickings for a hold-up man. His notes
especially were valueless to any one save himself, and even their loss
would not have been irreparable. He was still near enough to his
investigations to have the material for his book clearly fixed in his
mind and, once back at his desk in San Francisco, he would be able to
recall every detail of the last two weeks spent among the economic
nomads of the mountains. But in spite of all these obvious guarantees
against violence, it appeared that there _were_ reasons for being
forearmed.... It was Lem Thatcher, one of the oldtimers, who had put
him straight on this point.

“Bandits be damned!” Thatcher had exclaimed. “But how about a stray
bobcat? Or a crazy man? Or a lost trail?... A man who goes into the
open with nuthin’ but a jack-knife and a couple o’ bars o’ chocolate
is a fool.... Give a man a gun and you give him the next thing to a
pardner.”

Under the depression of the moment he felt that his original stupidity
lay not so much in failing to realize the needs of such a trip as in
essaying the venture at all. Why hadn’t he been sensible and taken
the stage as far as Rock Point and swung on from there to Marchel
Duplin’s cabin? He had no time to waste, and had there been no other
reason this alternative would have given him several additional hours
with a man who, everybody conceded, knew more about sheep herding than
any other within a hundred miles. He had talked to a Basque shepherd
near Compton’s and to a Mexican herder just the other side of Willow
Creek, attempting to get sidelights on their profession, but they had
been taciturn and he without the proper moisture for limbering their
tongues. Duplin, everybody conceded, was exceptionally garrulous for
a sheep herder even when he had not the help of thin wine. It seemed
expedient, then, to go to Duplin if he wished properly to complete
the picture of rural economy whose drawing he contemplated. But for
an untrained mountaineer--a tenderfoot, in fact--it was nothing save
a whimsical extravagance to plunge along a fifteen-mile trail through
forest and shifting granite when an easier course was open. Being
valley bred he hadn’t expected rain in August, but if he had stopped to
think he might have known that anything was climatically possible in
the mountains.

Stumbling, crawling, cursing, somehow in spite of the blackness
he felt himself making progress uphill. Presently his feet touched
level ground. This in itself was reassuring. He raised his eyes in a
desperate effort to pierce the gloom, took a few steps forward--and
suddenly, miraculously, found himself in a clearing from which beckoned
the friendly light of a cabin. With a smothered exclamation of joy he
quickened his gait, almost running forward, and the next instant he had
gained the window, instinctively stopping to peer within.

The unreality of the scene which met his eye gave Walton Pringle a
feeling that he was either dreaming or gazing down on a stage set for a
play; only sleep or the theater seemed capable of a picture so filled
with melodrama. But in the theater one was never at once spectator
and participant, and in sleep one did not have the tangible physical
discomfort which he felt. He drew his rain-soaked body closer against
the cabin, raising himself on his toes so that he might get a better
view of the interior. A man stood hovering over a table lighted by
an anæmic candle, and through his fingers dripped a slow trickle of
silver. In a corner, uncannily outlined by a steady gleam of light,
was a crucifix nailed to the wall and below it lay a couch piled with
disordered bed clothing. On the floor, midway between table and couch,
was sprawled the figure of a man--arms flung wide, his black-bearded
face upturned--a startling inanimate thing that made Walton Pringle
turn away with a shudder. The man at the table undoubtedly was a thief.
Was he also a murderer?

For the second time that night Pringle was glad that he was provided
with a pistol, and yet in spite of his preparedness he had a momentary
misgiving, an indecision: to be secured against an unavoidable
contingency was one thing; to push deliberately into trouble was quite
another. Pringle was no coward, but he knew his limitations; he was not
trained in any superlative skill with firearms. Was it discreet, then,
to thrust oneself across the path of a desperate man?

He continued to gaze through the window with morbid fascination and
uncertainty: the picture was too revealing--violence had been done,
that was obvious; plunder was in process of accomplishment. A sudden
disgust at his weak-kneed prudence stiffened his decision. At that
moment the wind, flinging itself through the pine trees, sent a shower
of twigs upon the cabin roof. The face at the table was lifted with a
tragic sense of insecurity and fear; Pringle saw that it was the face
of a young man, almost a boy. For a brief moment their eyes met; then
without further ado Pringle crept swiftly to the door, hurling his
body against it in anticipation of barred progress. The force of the
impact carried him well into the room. The youth was on his feet and an
exclamation halted on his thin, pallid lips. Pringle whipped out his
gun.

Walton Pringle did not utter a word; he merely gazed questioningly at
the youth, who began to whine.

“I didn’t do nuthin’, honest I didn’t.... I hope to die if----”

Pringle cut him short with an imperious gesture. The lad’s manner as
well as his physique was filled with a shambling, retarded maturity.
His face was curiously pale for one from a rural environment, and his
hair that should have been vivid and red had been sunburnt to a vague
straw color.

“Hand over your gun!” Pringle demanded.

The youth straightened himself with a flicker of confidence. “I ain’t
got none!” he threw back.

Pringle searched him: he had told the truth. “Come then, give me a hand
here!” he commanded, laying his own weapon on the table.

Together they lifted the inert body from the floor and placed it on the
couch.

“He’s dead!” the youth ventured.

Pringle put his hand to the man’s heart. “So it seems,” he returned
dryly.

The dead man was swarthy and beetle browed, with wiry blue-black hair
and beard. He was undressed save for a suit of thick woolen underwear
and his feet were encased in heavy knitted gray socks. An ugly gash
clotted his brow and the ooze of blood trickling thickly from the wound
was staining the bedclothes. A flash of intuition lighted up Pringle’s
mental gropings.

“Is this Marchel Duplin’s cabin?”

The youth stared, then nodded.

“And is this Marchel Duplin?”

“Yes.”

Almost with the same movement Pringle and the youth turned away, the
lad dropping into a chair before the table.

Pringle drew a bench from the wall and straddled it. “What’s your
name?” he demanded.

“Sam--Sam Allen.”

“Where do you come from?”

“Down--down by Walden’s Glen.”

“Ah!... And what are you doing here?”

“Gettin’ out o’ the wet, mostly.”

Pringle pointed to the heap of coins on the table. “And making a
little clean-up on the side, eh?... Well, what have you got to say for
yourself?”

Sam Allen dropped his ineffectual blue eyes. “Nuthin’ much ... I come
here to get outa the rain, like I said before. He was layin’ on the
bed there, mutterin’ to hisself, and burning up with fever. I went up
to him and I says, ‘Marchel, don’t yer know me?’ With that he grabs me
by the throat. I never _did_ see anybody get such a stranglehold on a
man.... I jest couldn’t pry him loose. He went down like a chunk o’
lead. And when his head struck the ground”--Sam Allen shuddered--“It
was jest like a rotten watermelon went squash.... I didn’t dare look
fer a minute, and when I did he was dead!”

“And then you proceeded to rob him, eh? Without even waiting to lift
his dead body from the floor ... or seeing what you could do to help
him?”

Sam Allen shook his head. “I know when a man’s dead ... and I don’t
like to touch ’em, somehow--that is--not all by myself. It was
different when you come. Besides, I’ve heerd tell that the law likes
things left in a case like this--that it’s better not to touch nuthin’.”

Pringle could not forego a sneer; really, the youth was too
ineffectual! “Nothing except money, I suppose!”

Sam Allen ignored the sarcasm; it is doubtful if it really made
an impression. “It musta got kicked out from under his pillow in
the scuffle.... Anyway, I seen it layin’ there on the floor, jest
where his head struck, almost. Of course I was curious.” He turned a
childishly eager face toward Pringle. “Do you know, he had nigh onto
fifty dollars in that there bag.”

“Indeed!”

But again Pringle’s sarcasm rebounded and fell flat. Apparently Sam
Allen was not quick witted. He mistook irony for interest. Without
further urging the youth began to tell about himself. His father had a
hog ranch just this side of Walden’s Glen--a drab, filthy spot. This
father kept drunk most of the time on a potent brand of moonshine
which he himself distilled. The whole drudgery of the place had fallen
on the boy. “Cows, I wouldn’t have minded so much--they ain’t dirty
like pigs--leastways what they eat ain’t!” He breathed hard when he
spoke and his clipped words took on descriptive vehemence. The whole
atmosphere of the Allen ranch rose in a fetid mist before Walton
Pringle: hog wallow, sour swill, obscene grunts and squealings, the
beastly drunkenness of Allen senior. Since no mention was made of
a woman’s presence, Pringle divined that there was none. Sam Allen
had grown sick to death of it all and had run away: without money,
provisions, or proper clothing--even lacking decent footgear--without
plans. It was a pitiful story and yet it damned him superlatively;
gave point to the situation in which he had been found. Listening to
him Pringle lost the conviction that he was a premeditated murderer,
but there seemed no reasonable doubt that he was an accidental one. It
seemed he knew well the Duplin cabin; used to steal up there on rare
occasions, when Marchel was out shepherding, to share the Frenchman’s
dribbles of thin wine. He liked wine. One mouthful and your heart felt
freer, more gay. Why, one could sing then--almost. At least Marchel
Duplin could. Moonshine never gave a man a singing mood--only a nasty
one. At this point Pringle could not forego a question: Did he know
that Duplin had money?... Allen hesitated and Pringle had an impulse
to warn him against answering; it didn’t seem fair to let the boy
unwittingly incriminate himself. But before Pringle could caution him
the youth blurted out the truth: he had heard something of it. Pringle
felt his heart contract in a rush of pity: the whole situation was so
obvious--a desperate, weak, perhaps degenerate boy rushing blindly
toward freedom and disaster. Had Duplin’s wine jug been part of the
youth’s hapless plan? Had he attempted to get the shepherd drunk before
he despoiled him?

At all events he hadn’t managed skillfully and the Frenchman had put
up a fight. The results spoke for themselves. Well, it all came back
to heredity and environment. He’d have an interesting lot of notes to
make on this case. No theorizing this time, but something at first
hand, alive and palpitating. Quite suddenly he found his pity receding,
submerged by his scientific desire for truth. The youth before him was
like a moth pinned to the wall, before which the investigator lost
all sentimental interest in his eagerness to measure the duration
of the death agony. Now was the time to get data, before fear or
caution stepped in to dam up Sam Allen’s naïve garrulity. Pringle was
interested in the youth’s mother. But Sam Allen couldn’t remember much:
Lizzie Evans, that had been her name--a girl who “worked out.” Yet the
very economy of this picture was illuminating. Lizzie Evans, a girl who
“worked out.” It was perfect! A girl who doubtless had been ruined,
to use the phrase of unemancipated women. She probably had had just
such a pinched, yellow, wistful face as the son she had borne to feed
the hangman’s noose. Pringle had a fad for reconstructing the faces of
mothers from the bolder outlines of their male offspring. He usually
found the test successful even with the most rugged material; he had a
feeling that in this case his imagination did not need to overleap any
confines whatsoever to achieve its goal. Lizzie Allen, born Evans, had
died: a futile, weak anæmic slip of a girl, stifled by the nauseous
vapors of the hog pens. Not that Sam Allen put it so, but Pringle could
read a shorthand of life almost as skillfully as a complete script. He
swung the conversation back to Allen senior. The son embellished the
portrait with a wealth of sinister details, finishing with a malicious
little chuckle.

“An’ he’s deputy sheriff for the district, too, moonshinin’ an’ all....
Oh, I’ve seen him track fellars down an’ shoot ’em when they had the
goods on him. Didn’t matter whether they was guilty or not.... I’ve
seen him beat ’em, too--over the head--with the butt of a pistol--or
anything else that came handy!”

Pringle turned his eyes to the inanimate figure on the bed. How
completely everything was dovetailing! “_I’ve seen him beat ’em, too,
over the head._” Precisely. For all the youth’s inadequacy he had
absorbed some of the inhumanities from his sire.

       *       *       *       *       *

A strange exalted cruelty began to stir in Walton Pringle, the cruelty
of an animal on the scene of some furtive thing pitifully intent on
escape. His mood must have communicated itself, for suddenly Sam Allen
fell into a silence that no amount of prodding could shatter. Well,
there could be little more that bore upon the particular issue. Pringle
began to think of the most expedient move. He found himself shivering.
Naturally, since he had been wet to the skin.... A rusty stove huddled
itself just below one of the windows, sending its pipe crazily through
a shattered pane. Pringle suggested a fire; dumbly the youth assented.
Together they began to collect débris from the cabin floor: crumpled
newspapers, empty cartons, a handful of pine cones. Soon a cheerful
blaze crackled and roared. Even Sam Allen found its warmth agreeable,
but its cheer did not serve to melt his sudden reticence.

Presently for lack of fuel the fire began to spend itself and its snap
and roar sank to a faint hiss. The night too seemed to have grown
miraculously silent. Pringle rose and threw open the cabin door. The
rain had stopped, even the wind had fallen, and through a rent in the
storm clouds far to the east a faint glow gave promise of a rising moon.

Pringle closed the door and went back to his place before the stove.
The situation in which he found himself made him suddenly restive. It
seemed as if he could not possibly wait until morning to settle the
issue that must ultimately be settled.

Walden’s Glen lay a good fifteen miles to the east, but at least it
was for the most part down grade. His exhaustion of the previous hour
had been swallowed up in the absorbing shock of drama. He felt like
making a decisive move and yet a certain pity for Sam Allen, shrinking
visibly before his questioning gaze, made him resolve to give the youth
a meager choice in the matter. He sauntered casually to the table. The
candle was guttering to a feeble decline, and it threw out a flickering
light that touched with spasmodic fire the coins lying in a disorderly
heap where Sam Allen had abandoned them. Pringle ran his hand nervously
through the silver pile.

“What do you think,” he asked abruptly, “shall we strike out for
Walden’s Glen now, or wait till morning?”

Sam Allen gave a gasp. Then recovering himself, he returned with slow
drawling defiance, “If you’re headed that way, suit yourself.... But I
set out to leave Walden’s Glen and I don’t see no reason why I should
go back.”

Pringle felt himself grow ominously cool. “I dare say you don’t.
But, unfortunately for you, there _are_ reasons.... In a way I’m
sorry I walked into this mess. But I did walk in and I can’t shirk my
responsibility. There’s the law to reckon with, you know!”

Sam Allen’s lips began to tremble. “I tell you it was an accident.
Don’t you believe me?”

“No.”

“And you mean to give me up--to--to--my father?”

_Deputy sheriff for the district!_ For a moment even Pringle trembled:
the picture which the youth had drawn of his sire had been too vivid.
And besides, the bare situation was pregnant with disaster.

“I’m afraid there’s no help for it,” Pringle returned, trying to check
any show of emotion. Sam Allen crept nearer to the table like a whipped
dog. Pringle was stirred to a profound pity. “Besides,” he went on more
softly, “your father can’t really touch you. You’ll have all the law on
your side.”

Even in his terror the youth could not check a sneer. “Much you know
about it!” he cried passionately.

“But I’ll go with you--don’t you understand--every step of the way ...
I mean, I’ll stand by you till everything’s put straight.” Pringle
broke off suddenly. Sam Allen’s white face seemed to draw closer to the
table and his two eyes were fixed craftily upon the gun which Pringle
had neglected to restore to his hip pocket.

An intense nervous silence followed; Pringle made a swift movement
toward the pistol, and the next moment the candle was violently
extinguished.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pringle stood momentarily inactive under the shock of surprise. The
slam of the door roused him. He went stumbling through the gloom,
knocking down impediments in his path until he gained the open. The
moon was still hidden by the thick clouds in the east, but directly
overhead a few stars showed dimly through thin vapors rising from the
drenched hills.

Almost at once he realized the futility of pursuit. He knew nothing
about the country, and besides, the greatest service he could render
was to report the situation promptly. An aroused community would deal
effectively with the murderer--he wouldn’t get very far with his lack
of resources and wit.

Pringle went back into the cabin and lighted the candle, forcing the
stub out of the candlestick to prolong its life. The pile of silver had
been scattered about by the impact of stumbling fingers but it appeared
otherwise intact; the pistol, however, had disappeared. Pringle laughed
to himself, shrugging his shoulders. It was plain that he had much to
learn about the custody of prisoners. Urged by the expediency of taking
stock of all emphatic details connected with the situation, he raised
the candle and swept the interior with its faint radiance. This was the
first comprehensive view he had taken of the room. But there was really
little of fresh significance: the cot on which lay the body of Marchel
Duplin, the rusting stove, the table, the one chair, the bench; and
over in a corner--back of the door when it swung open--a burlap curtain
screening a shallow triangle. This last item was the only detail which
had previously escaped him, partly because of its neutral color and
partly because it hung in the shadow. A faint suspicion crossed him as
he caught the movement of the curtain. He put the light down on the
table. Could it be that the slammed door following on Allen’s apparent
exit had been a clever ruse? He took a quick gliding step forward
and thrust the curtain dramatically aside, almost expecting to find
Sam Allen cowering behind it. But the space revealed nothing except
a muddle of clothes and discarded boots, and a sharp current of air
drifting through a wide crevice in the floor.

The reaction from the tenseness of expectation left him shivering. An
impatience for the whole situation swept over him. He felt relieved
that young Allen had fled, eluded him. It lifted an unpleasant duty
from his shoulders and at the same time confirmed the youth’s guilt. He
would have hated, now that he considered it, to be the instrument for
turning an uncertain situation into an inevitable one. His testimony
might have damned an innocent man--that he was now willing to concede.
But Allen’s escape immeasurably cleared the issue: innocent people were
never fearful. How many, _many_ times, in divers forms, had this truism
been brought home to him!

Yet in spite of the emphatic case against young Allen, Pringle felt
the necessity of having his own movements clear in his mind. He’d be
questioned, naturally; that went without saying. Quite rapidly he
recapitulated the events of the day: the start from Walden’s Glen at
sunrise, the untoward rain at noon, his dawdling in the shelter of a
redwood hollow against a sudden clearing; his resolve to push on when
he saw no prospect of the storm’s abatement.... It all sounded so clear
and simple. Once he explained his mission, any testimony he might
give must gather added weight. And his credentials would render his
testimony doubly valuable. His book on _Radical Movements in Relation
to Post-war Problems_ would carry him past any reasonable skepticism,
and then a B.A. from Yale and the prospects of a Ph.D. from Columbia
ought to impress even a rural magistrate.

He decided to count the money and take it with him to Walden’s Glen.
It wasn’t safe to leave it in the cabin, and besides, it had a
significant bearing on the case. In a half hour, he figured, the moon
would be fully risen and if the sky continued to clear he would have a
brilliantly lighted path to travel back.

He drew the single chair up to the table and fell to his task. The
money was in all denominations of silver, but mostly quarters and
halves. He began to group them into systematic piles. A faint scraping
sound made him pause.... A twig, probably, brushing against the
house.... He continued counting the money. Again the sound came. This
time a tremor ran through him as he stopped his task. He kept his
eye straight ahead as if fearing to turn to the right or left. Then
slowly, fearfully, with the inevitability of one who feels other eyes
fixed ironically upon him, he turned and looked up at the window, very
much as Sam Allen had done less than an hour before.... A man’s face
answered his startled gaze and the next instant the door flew open.

Walton Pringle rose in his seat, again repeating the gesture of Sam
Allen in a like situation. A faint, almost imperceptible sense of this
analogy crept over him; he felt his heart suddenly contract.

       *       *       *       *       *

The man in the doorway had an impressive bulk, a swaggering, insolent
grossness that must once have been robustly virile. His coarse underlip
had sufficient force to crowd upward a ragged mustache, and as he
stepped heavily into the circle of light, Walton Pringle felt a glint
of sardonic and unpropitiable humor leap at him from two piglike eyes.

“Where’s Duplin?” the stranger demanded.

Pringle pointed to the cot. The visitor strode up to it and drew down
the quilt. “Dead, eh!” He bent over closer. “Ah, a tolerable blow on
the head.... Neat job, I’d say.” He flung back the quilt over the face
of the corpse with a gesture that showed an absolute indifference, a
contempt even for the presence of death. “Well, stranger, suppose you
tell me who you are?” There was an authority in his drawling suaveness
which brought a quick answer. “Pringle, eh?... And just what are you
doing here?”

Pringle stiffened with a rallied dignity. “I might ask you the same
question. And I might ask your name, too, if I felt at all curious. As
a matter of fact, I’m not, but I must decline to be cross-examined by a
man I don’t know.”

A grim humor played about the protruding under-lip. “Correct, stranger,
correct as hell! My name happens to be Allen--Hank Allen. That don’t
mean nuthin’ to yer, does it? Well, I’ll go further. I’m deputy sheriff
for this county and I’ve got a right to question any man I take a
notion to question. It ain’t exactly a right I work overtime, but when
I come into a man’s cabin and find that man dead and a stranger pawin’
over his money, I guess I just naturally calc’late that I’d better get
on the job.” He threw a pair of handcuffs on the table. “Why I happen
to be here don’t matter much, I guess. A man sometimes goes hunting for
jack rabbit and brings home venison. You get me, don’t yer?”

Walton Pringle stood motionless, trying to still the beating of his
heart. He understood something now of Sam Allen’s terror, Sam Allen’s
fear of being turned over to his father. But he knew also that a
betrayal of fear would be one of the worst moves he could make.

“You don’t have to tell me why you’re here,” he said quietly, “now that
I know your name. There’s a runaway lad mixed up in it somewhere, if
I’m not mistaken.”

The barest possible flash of surprise lighted up the features of Hank
Allen, destroying for a moment their brutal immobility. “I ain’t saying
‘yes’ or ‘no’ to that,” he half laughed, recovering his careless
manner. “But I don’t figger how that answers the question at hand.”

Pringle smiled a superior smile. “Perhaps you’re not the only one
to look through the window at a stranger sitting before this table
_pawin’_ over a dead man’s money. Perhaps I wasn’t the first in the
field. Perhaps there is more than you fancy to connect up a runaway lad
with the question at hand. Who knows?”

Hank Allen’s shoulders drooped forward with almost impalpable menace
and his brows drew down tightly. “Look here, Pringle, I ain’t
accustomed to movin’ in circles. When I shoot, I shoot straight. What’s
more, I usually set the pace. In other words, let’s have no more
riddles. Good plain language suits me. What’s on your mind?”

Pringle shrugged his shoulders with a hint of triumph and proceeded to
tell his adversary just what was on his mind in good plain language
that he felt would suit Hank Allen down to the ground. But as he
progressed he found an uneasiness halting the glibness with which he
had opened fire: Hank Allen’s impassivity became as inscrutable and
sinister as a tragic mask whose inflexible outlines concealed a surface
animate with fly-blown depravity. He finished upon a note of pity for
the youth and rested his case with a tremulousness of spirit which
disclosed that he was pleading his cause rather than Sam Allen’s; and
pleading, as Sam Allen himself had done, to a tribunal that had already
reached its verdict.

“I’m not saying the boy meant to do it, mind you,” he repeated, stung
to a reiteration by Allen’s ominous silence. “And I’m right here to do
all I can to pull him out of a hole. _My_ testimony ought to have some
weight.”

Allen ignored Pringle’s egotistic flourish. “Let’s see,” he mused
coldly, “what time did you strike out from Walden’s Glen?”

“At seven this morning.”

“And it took you until nearly nine at night to make this cabin?...
You’re a mighty slow walker, if you ask me.”

“The rain came on shortly after one o’clock. I thought it might let up,
so I dodged into the shelter of a redwood stump near Preston’s Flat.
But it only grew worse. At five I decided to push on.”

Suddenly Pringle stopped, chilled by the fact that Hank Allen’s air of
sneering incredulity was rendering devoid of substance the simplest and
most truthful statements. Even in his own ears they rang out falsely.
He desperately recovered himself and again took up his defense. It was
terrifying how hollow even his credentials sounded, let alone the story
of the day’s events: a Yale B.A., a Ph.D. from Columbia, the author of
_Radical Movements in Relation to Post-war Problems_--every statement
he made grew more incredible, more fictitious, more hopeless. It was as
if the monumental skepticism of Hank Allen were capable of destroying
all reality. When he had finished, Hank Allen cleared his throat
significantly.

“You’ll have a mighty interesting story to tell the judge,” he
half-sneered, half-chuckled.

The brevity of Hank Allen’s comment was packed with presage, and yet
for a fleeting moment Walton Pringle took courage. A judge--precisely!
A judge would be quite a different matter. Really, the situation
was little short of absurd! In answer Hank Allen merely turned his
gaze toward the disheveled cot, and he continued to tap the table
significantly with the empty handcuffs.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the portentous silence which followed Walton Pringle’s thoughts
leaped to Sam Allen. Had his own skepticism of the previous hour
also flattened the youth’s defense? If he had listened with an open
mind would the boy’s far-fetched statements have held germs of
reasonability? After all, what was there so extravagant in Sam Allen’s
tale? It could have happened just as he had said. But there was the
youth’s absurd escape. What point did any man have in damning himself
with any move so suspicious--so futile?

As for Allen senior, what did he really think? It was almost incredible
to imagine that he fancied Walton Pringle guilty. Then why the pose?
Did some smoldering clan spirit in him rouse instinctively to his own
flesh and blood in its extremity? Or would his son’s disgrace expose
his own delinquencies? The story that Pringle had listened to must
merely have scratched the surface of his father’s infamies. No, it was
patent that Allen senior was in no position to invite the law to review
his private record.... Yet he must know that he could but postpone the
inevitable. What would happen tomorrow when the proper magistrate heard
the real truth? The thought, spinning through Walton Pringle’s brain,
gave him a sudden feeling of boldness. After all, what had _he_ to
fear? He rose in his seat, all his confidence recaptured.

“Mr. Allen,” he said clearly, “you are quite right. I _have_ an
interesting story to tell the judge. Therefore, I think the sooner I
tell it the better. Shall we start back to Walden’s Glen at once?”

A sardonic smile fastened itself on Pringle. He picked up the
handcuffs. “If you will oblige me--” he nodded toward Pringle’s folded
arms.

The faint suggestion of a chill crept over Pringle. “Do I understand,
Mr. Allen, that you intend to put me to the indignity of handcuffs?”
Allen shrugged. “No, I won’t have it! I’ll be damned if I will!”

“You won’t have it? Come now, that ain’t pretty talk. And it ain’t
reasonable talk, neither.” He narrowed his eyes. “Resisting an officer
of the law is sometimes a messy job, stranger.”

Pringle’s resistance died before the covert snarl in Allen’s voice.
He put out his wrists and in the next instant he felt a cold clasp of
steel encircling them and heard the click of the lock. At the moment he
remembered the words of Sam Allen: “_I’ve seen him beat ’em, too, over
the head, with the butt end of a pistol--or anything else that came
handy._”

And in a swift, terrible moment of revelation he knew that that was
just what Hank Allen intended to do.

       *       *       *       *       *

He fell back on the bench utterly helpless and without defense. Every
story of the law’s brutality that had ever reached his ears seemed
to beat mockingly about him. He remembered now that not one of these
tales had ever concerned an unshackled victim. No, what petty tyrants
liked best was something prostrate which they could kick and trample
with impunity. That was always the normal complement of bullying,
but in this case corruption gave the hand of authority an added
incentive. Hank Allen would murder him not only for the pleasure of the
performance but to save his own hide. A man struck down for resisting
an officer would tell no tales. And how neatly the situation would
be cleared up: a suspected murderer paying the penalty of his crime
without process or expense of law. A bit of sound judicial economy, to
tell the truth, in a community not given to rating life too dearly. And
he thought that he had managed it all so cleverly!

At this point he noticed that Hank Allen was intent on investigating
a menacing six-shooter and his mind moved alertly past all the futile
movements he could make toward defense. Where was Hank Allen planning
his latest atrocity--here in Marchel Duplin’s cabin or somewhere on
the trail to Walden’s Glen? Here in the cabin--or he missed his
guess--with a litter of broken furniture to add confirmation to a tale
of resistance.

His gaze swept the room with a sudden hunger for even a drab background
to life, as if his soul longed to carry a homely memory with it
into the impending darkness. He saw the tumbled cot, the rusting
stove, the table before him with a sudden passionate sense of their
rude symbolism. Even the guttering candle, almost spent, took on
significance. It was the candle, blown into untimely darkness, that
had paved the way for his predicament. If only his pocket flash had
worked! Upon such trivialities did life itself depend! A flickering
candle ... a flickering candle ... a flickering-- The rhythmic beat of
this reiteration snapped. Unconsciously he had looked past the gleam of
light to the closed door and the burlap curtain, screening its shallow
triangle, swaying gently in the half darkness. Abruptly candlelight,
doorway, and curtain became fused into a unit--startling and lucid.
Would it be possible? The prospect left him as breathless as a dash of
cold water; he could hear himself gasp. Hank Allen fixed him with a
suspicious glance.

“What’s the matter?” he demanded brutally.

Pringle’s mind cleared to a point of supreme intuition.

“I’m--I’m ill!” he gasped. “Would--would you mind opening the
door--it’s suffocating in here.”

Hank Allen hesitated, then a diabolic humor seemed to move him to
compliance. He threw back the door with a chuckle and resumed his seat.
It was as if he had said, “Try it, my friend, if it amuses you!”

For a brief moment Walton Pringle closed his eyes; then quite suddenly
opened them, took in a deep breath, and with a quick upward leap he
blew out the candle.

       *       *       *       *       *

Drawing himself flatly against the wall, Pringle felt the impact
of the door swinging back before Allen’s stumbling pursuit. It was
inconceivable that a man on such good terms with subterfuge could have
been tricked by anything so obvious as a slammed door. But how long
would he remain tricked? He wouldn’t search the hills all night, nor
would he be likely to strike out for Walden’s Glen without returning
to the cabin. Pringle’s first elation at the extraordinary success of
his ruse fell before the realization of his plight. What chance had a
handcuffed man in any case? And his attempt to escape--how beautifully
that colored his guilt! _Innocent people were never fearful._ The
memory of this mental deduction bit at him sharply. Yet with all
the odds against him he felt that he must plan something and that
quickly. Cautiously moving back the open door he peered over its rim.
At first his vision could not pierce the gloom, but suddenly a flood
of moonlight released from the imprisonment of dispersing clouds made
a path of silver into the cabin. Pringle listened: everything was
extraordinarily still.

All at once the silence was cracked by a keen report. A snapping
fusillade answered Pringle’s mental interrogation.... He heard a
shrill cry, clipped and terrible. Then the silence fell again....
Presently the soft beat of cautious footfalls drifted toward the cabin.
Pringle withdrew to the curtain’s shelter. Something fluttered on the
threshold. Then slowly, warily, the door was closed.

Pringle leaned sidewise, the tail of one eye thrust past the curtain’s
edge. Moonlight was flooding now even through the grimy windowpane. A
shadowy form crept stealthily toward the table, halted as if sensing a
living presence, turned sharply and revealed the unmistakable outlines
of Sam Allen’s ineffectual face.

Walton Pringle gave a cry of mingled relief and surprise and stepped
from his hiding place.

The youth shrank back. “I--I wondered where you were,” he gasped. He
gave a little hysterical flourish with his right hand and Pringle saw
that he held the stolen pistol. “Well, I’m a murderer _now_!” he spit
out with quivering venom.

In a flash Pringle knew everything, and yet he could only stammer out
in stupid conventional protest:

“You don’t mean ... _not your father_!”

The youth’s face grew ashen. “Who else did you think?” He gave a
scraping laugh. “Would _you_ stand up and let him get you, if you had a
chance to shoot first? I guess not.... Well, what are you going to do
about it?”

Pringle brought his shackled wrists into the moonlight. “Damned little,
I fancy.”

Young Allen put an incredulous finger on the handcuffs. “What’s the
idea?”

Pringle smiled ironically. “Just a little joke of your father’s.
He pretended he thought I was the murderer. He was for taking me
back to Walden’s Glen.” He stopped, overcome with a passion for
self-accusation, self-abasement: “Just as I wanted to take you back....
Yes, on the surface he was as self-righteous and smug as I was. But he
didn’t fool me. I knew that he intended to murder me in cold blood--to
save your hide and incidentally his.... Well, I blew out the candle as
you did--to--to save myself.”

A curious look came over Sam Allen’s face. Walton Pringle had a feeling
that for the second time that night he had delivered himself into the
hands of the enemy.

“You were a fool to tell me that,” Sam Allen drawled, with a hint of
his father’s biting irony in his voice. “I wouldn’t have thought of
such an easy way out--all by myself.... Yer know what I mean, don’t
yer?”

Pringle felt himself grow unnaturally calm. “You mean you could shoot
me down and settle everything for yourself?... Yes, you could. Dead
men tell no tales, and in this case three dead men would be even more
silent than two.... I can’t say that I blame you. I didn’t give any
quarter in your pinch; why should you spare me?”

Sam Allen gave an impatient cough and his words vibrated with sudden
and strange maturity as he said coldly:

“I’m trying to figure it out.... It _would_ be simpler to kill you.”
He held up the pistol, gazing at it with the tragic fascination of a
stripling who has tasted his first victory--drawn his first blood.
His whole body seemed animated with some strange new power that still
struggled for foothold. Was the spirit of Hank Allen so soon fighting
for a place in which to lodge its sinister corruption?... Suddenly
he began to shiver violently. “No, it wouldn’t be simpler,” he half
whispered--“not in the long run.... What do you say? Shall we go back
to Walden’s Glen--together?”

A faint blur dimmed Pringle’s gaze. “I don’t deserve it!” he cried with
a vehement passion. “Upon my word, I don’t!”

Sam Allen laid the pistol on the table. “Shucks!” he said simply,
“everybody makes mistakes.”

And at that moment Walton Pringle fancied that the pinched, yellow,
wistful face before him re-created with a curiously poignant glory the
face of Lizzie Allen, born Evans--the girl who had “worked out”!


FOOTNOTES:

     [7] Copyright, 1925, by Harper & Brothers.
         Copyright, 1926, by Charles Caldwell Dobie.




                          THE CITY OF REFUGE[8]

                            By RUDOLPH FISHER

                      (From _The Atlantic Monthly_)

                                   I

Confronted suddenly by daylight, King Solomon Gillis stood dazed and
blinking. The railroad station, the long, white-walled corridor, the
impassible slot-machine, the terrifying subway train--he felt as if he
had been caught up in the jaws of a steam-shovel, jammed together with
other helpless lumps of dirt, swept blindly along for a time, and at
last abruptly dumped.

There had been strange and terrible sounds: ‘New York! Penn
Terminal--all change!’ ‘Pohter, hyer, pohter, suh?’ Shuffle of a
thousand soles, clatter of a thousand heels, innumerable echoes.
Cracking rifle-shots--no, snapping turnstiles. ‘Put a nickel in!’
‘Harlem? Sure. This side--next train.’ Distant thunder, nearing.
The screeching onslaught of the fiery hosts of hell, headlong,
breath-taking. Car doors rattling, sliding, banging open. ‘Say,
wha’ d’ye think this is, a baggage car?’ Heat, oppression,
suffocation--eternity--‘Hundred ’n turdy-fif’ next!’ More turnstiles.
Jonah emerging from the whale.

Clean air, blue sky, bright sunlight.

Gillis set down his tan-cardboard extension case and wiped his black,
shining brow. Then slowly, spreadingly, he grinned at what he saw:
Negroes at every turn; up and down Lenox Avenue, up and down One
Hundred and Thirty-Fifth Street; big, lanky Negroes, short, squat
Negroes; black ones, brown ones, yellow ones; men standing idle on the
curb, women, bundle-laden, trudging reluctantly homeward, children
rattle-trapping about the sidewalks; here and there a white face
drifting along, but Negroes predominantly, overwhelmingly everywhere.
There was assuredly no doubt of his whereabouts. This was Negro Harlem.

Back in North Carolina Gillis had shot a white man and, with the aid
of prayer and an automobile, probably escaped a lynching. Carefully
avoiding the railroads, he had reached Washington in safety. For
his car a Southwest bootlegger had given him a hundred dollars and
directions to Harlem; and so he had come to Harlem.

Ever since a traveling preacher had first told him of the place, King
Solomon Gillis had longed to come to Harlem. The Uggams were always
talking about it; one of their boys had gone to France in the draft
and, returning, had never got any nearer home than Harlem. And there
were occasional ‘colored’ newspapers from New York: newspapers that
mentioned Negroes without comment, but always spoke of a white person
as ‘So-and-so, white.’ That was the point. In Harlem, black was white.
You had rights that could not be denied you; you had privileges,
protected by law. And you had money. Everybody in Harlem had money. It
was a land of plenty. Why, had not Mouse Uggam sent back as much as
fifty dollars at a time to his people in Waxhaw?

The shooting, therefore, simply catalyzed whatever sluggish mental
reaction had been already directing King Solomon’s fortunes toward
Harlem. The land of plenty was more than that now: it was also the city
of refuge.

Casting about for direction, the tall newcomer’s glance caught
inevitably on the most conspicuous thing in sight, a magnificent figure
in blue that stood in the middle of the crossing and blew a whistle and
waved great white-gloved hands. The Southern Negro’s eyes opened wide;
his mouth opened wider. If the inside of New York had mystified him,
the outside was amazing him. For there stood a handsome, brass-buttoned
giant directing the heaviest traffic Gillis had ever seen; halting
unnumbered tons of automobiles and trucks and wagons and pushcarts and
street-cars; holding them at bay with one hand while he swept similar
tons peremptorily on with the other; ruling the wide crossing with
supreme self-assurance; and he, too, was a Negro!

Yet most of the vehicles that leaped or crouched at his bidding
carried white passengers. One of these overdrove bounds a few feet and
Gillis heard the officer’s shrill whistle and gruff reproof, saw the
driver’s face turn red and his car draw back like a threatened pup. It
was beyond belief--impossible. Black might be white, but it couldn’t be
that white!

‘Done died an’ woke up in Heaven,’ thought King Solomon, watching,
fascinated; and after a while, as if the wonder of it were too great
to believe simply by seeing, ‘Cullud policemans!’ he said, half aloud;
then repeated over and over, with greater and greater conviction, ‘Even
got cullud policemans--even got cullud----’

‘Where y’ want to go, big boy?’

Gillis turned. A little, sharp-faced yellow man was addressing him.

‘Saw you was a stranger. Thought maybe I could help y’ out.’

King Solomon located and gratefully extended a slip of paper. ‘Wha’ dis
hyeh at, please, suh?’

The other studied it a moment, pushing back his hat and scratching his
head. The hat was a tall-crowned, unindented brown felt; the head was
brown patent-leather, its glistening brush-back flawless save for a
suspicious crimpiness near the clean-grazed edges.

‘See that second corner? Turn to the left when you get there. Number
forty-five’s about half-way the block.’

‘Thank y’, suh.’

‘You from--Massachusetts?’

‘No, suh, Nawth Ca’lina.’

‘Is ’at so? You look like a Northerner. Be with us long?’

‘Till I die,’ grinned the flattered King Solomon.

‘Stoppin’ there?’

‘Reckon I is. Man in Washin’ton ’lowed I’d find lodgin’ at dis
ad-dress.’

‘Good enough. If y’ don’t, maybe I can fix y’ up. Harlem’s pretty
crowded. This is me.’ He proffered a card.

‘Thank y’, suh,’ said Gillis, and put the card in his pocket.

The little yellow man watched him plod flat-footedly on down the
street, long awkward legs never quite straightened, shouldered
extension-case bending him sidewise, wonder upon wonder halting or
turning him about. Presently, as he proceeded, a pair of bright green
stockings caught and held his attention. Tony, the storekeeper, was
crossing the sidewalk with a bushel basket of apples. There was a
collision; the apples rolled; Tony exploded; King Solomon apologized.
The little yellow man laughed shortly, took out a notebook, and put
down the address he had seen on King Solomon’s slip of paper.

‘Guess you’re the shine I been waitin’ for,’ he surmised.

As Gillis, approaching his destination, stopped to rest, a haunting
notion grew into an insistent idea. ‘Dat li’l yaller nigger was a sho’
’nuff gen’man to show me de road. Seem lak I knowed him befo’--’ He
pondered. That receding brow, that sharp-ridged, spreading nose, that
tight upper lip over the two big front teeth, that chinless jaw-- He
fumbled hurriedly for the card he had not looked at and eagerly made
out the name.

‘Mouse Uggam, sho’ ’nuff! Well, dog-gone!’


                                   II

Uggam sought out Tom Edwards, once a Pullman porter, now prosperous
proprietor of a cabaret, and told him:--

‘Chief, I got him: a baby jess in from the land o’ cotton and so dumb
he thinks ante bellum’s an old woman.’

‘Where’d you find him?’

‘Where you find all the jay birds when they first hit Harlem--at the
subway entrance. This one come up the stairs, batted his eyes once or
twice, an’ froze to the spot--with his mouth open. Sure sign he’s from
’way down behind the sun an’ ripe f’ the pluckin’.’

Edwards grinned a gold-studded, fat-jowled grin. ‘Gave him the usual
line, I suppose?’

‘Didn’t miss. An’ he fell like a ton o’ bricks. ’Course I’ve got him
spotted, but damn ’f I know jess how to switch ’em on to him.’

‘Get him a job around a store somewhere. Make out you’re befriendin’
him. Get his confidence.’

‘Sounds good. Ought to be easy. He’s from my State. Maybe I know him or
some of his people.’

‘Make out you do, anyhow. Then tell him some fairy tale that’ll switch
your trade to him. The cops’ll follow the trade. We could even let
Froggy flop into some dumb white cop’s hands and “confess” where he got
it. See?’

‘Chief, you got a head, no lie.’

‘Don’t lose no time. And remember, hereafter, it’s better to sacrifice
a little than to get squealed on. Never refuse a customer. Give him a
little credit. Humor him along till you can get rid of him safe. You
don’t know what that guy that died may have said; you don’t know who’s
on to you now. And if they get you--I don’t know you.’

‘They won’t get _me_,’ said Uggam.

       *       *       *       *       *

King Solomon Gillis sat meditating in a room half the size of his
hencoop back home, with a single window opening into an airshaft.

An airshaft: cabbage and chitterlings cooking; liver and onions
sizzling, sputtering; three player-pianos out-plunking each other;
a man and a woman calling each other vile things; a sick, neglected
baby wailing; a phonograph broadcasting blues; dishes clacking; a girl
crying heartbrokenly; waste noises, waste odors of a score of families,
seeking issue through a common channel; pollution from bottom to top--a
sewer of sounds and smells.

Contemplating this, King Solomon grinned and breathed, ‘Dog-gone!’ A
little later, still gazing into the sewer, he grinned again. ‘Green
stockin’s,’ he said; ’loud green!’ The sewer gradually grew darker.
A window lighted up opposite, revealing a woman in camisole and
petticoat, arranging her hair. King Solomon, staring vacantly, shook
his head and grinned yet again. ‘Even got cullud policemans!’ he
mumbled softly.


                                  III

Uggam leaned out of the room’s one window and spat maliciously into the
dinginess of the airshaft. ‘Damn glad you got him,’ he commented, as
Gillis finished his story. ‘They’s a thousand shines in Harlem would
change places with you in a minute jess f’ the honor of killin’ a
cracker.’

‘But I didn’t go to do it. ’Twas a accident.’

‘That’s the only part to keep secret.’

‘Know whut dey done? Dey killed five o’ Mose Joplin’s hawses ’fo he
lef’. Put groun’ glass in de feed-trough. Sam Cheevers come up on three
of ’em one night pizenin’ his well. Bleesom beat Crinshaw out o’ sixty
acres o’ lan’ an’ a year’s crops. Dass jess how ’tis. Soon’s a nigger
make a li’l sump’n he better git to leavin’. An’ ’fo long ev’ybody’s
goin’ be lef’!’

‘Hope to hell they don’t all come here.’

The doorbell of the apartment rang. A crescendo of footfalls in the
hallway culminated in a sharp rap on Gillis’s door. Gillis jumped.
Nobody but a policeman would rap like that. Maybe the landlady had been
listening and had called in the law. It came again, loud, quick, angry.
King Solomon prayed that the policeman would be a Negro.

Uggam stepped over and opened the door. King Solomon’s apprehensive
eyes saw framed therein, instead of a gigantic officer, calling
for him, a little blot of a creature, quite black against even the
darkness of the hallway, except for a dirty, wide-striped silk shirt,
collarless, with the sleeves rolled up.

‘Ah hahve bill fo’ Mr. Gillis.’ A high, strongly accented Jamaican
voice, with its characteristic singsong intonation, interrupted King
Solomon’s sigh of relief.

‘Bill? Bill fo’ me? What kin’ o’ bill?’

‘Wan bushel appels. T’ree seventy-fife.’

‘Apples? I ain’ bought no apples.’ He took the paper and read aloud,
laboriously, ‘Antonio Gabrielli to K. S. Gillis, Doctor----’

‘Mr. Gabrielli say, you not pays him, he send policemon.’

‘What I had to do wid ’is apples?’

‘You bumps into him yesterday, no? Scatter appels everywhere--on the
sidewalk, in de gutter. Kids pick up an’ run away. Others all spoil. So
you pays.’

Gillis appealed to Uggam. ‘How ’bout it, Mouse?’

‘He’s a damn liar. Tony picked up most of ’em; I seen him. Lemme look
at that bill--Tony never wrote this thing. This baby’s jess playin’ you
for a sucker.’

‘Ain’ had no apples, ain’ payin’ fo’ none,’ announced King Solomon,
thus prompted. ‘Didn’t have to come to Harlem to git cheated. Plenty o’
dat right wha’ I come fum.’

But the West Indian warmly insisted. ‘You cahn’t do daht, mon. Whaht
you t’ink, ’ey? Dis mon loose ’is appels an’ ’is money too?’

‘What diff’ence it make to you, nigger?’

‘Who you call nigger, mon? Ah hahve you understahn’--’

‘Oh, well, white folks, den. What all you got t’ do wid dis hyeh,
anyhow?’

‘Mr. Gabrielli send me to collect bill!’

‘How I know dat?’

‘Do Ah not bring bill? You t’ink Ah steal t’ree dollar, ’ey?’

‘Three dollars an’ sebenty-fi’ cent,’ corrected Gillis. ’Nuther thing:
wha’ you ever see me befo’? How you know dis is me?’

‘Ah see you, sure. Ah help Mr. Gabrielli in de store. When you knocks
down de baskette appels, Ah see. Ah follow you. Ah know you comes in
dis house.’

‘Oh, you does? An’ how come you know my name an’ flat an’ room so good?
How come dat?’

‘Ah fin’ out. Sometime Ah brings up here vegetables from de store.’

‘Humph! Mus’ be workin’ on shares.’

‘You pays, ’ey? You pays me or de policemon?’

‘Wait a minute,’ broke in Uggam, who had been thoughtfully
contemplating the bill. ‘Now listen, big shorty. You haul hips on back
to Tony. We got your menu all right’--he waved the bill--‘but we don’t
eat your kind o’ cookin’, see?’

The West Indian flared. ‘Whaht it is to you, ’ey? You can not mind your
own business? Ah hahve not spik to you!’

‘No, brother. But this is my friend, an’ I’ll be john-browned if
there’s a monkey-chaser in Harlem can gyp him if I know it, see? Bes’
thing f’ you to do is to catch air, toot sweet.’

Sensing frustration, the little islander demanded the bill back. Uggam
figured he could use the bill himself, maybe. The West Indian hotly
persisted; he even menaced. Uggam pocketed the paper and invited him to
take it. Wisely enough, the caller preferred to catch air.

When he had gone, King Solomon sought words of thanks.

‘Bottle it,’ said Uggam. ‘The point is this: I figger you got a job.’

‘Job? No I ain’t! Wha’ at?’

‘When you show Tony this bill, he’ll hit the roof and fire that monk.’

‘What ef he do?’

‘Then you up ’n ask f’ the job. He’ll be too grateful to refuse. I know
Tony some, an’ I’ll be there to put in a good word. See?’

King Solomon considered this. ‘Sho’ needs a job, but ain’ after
stealin’ none.’

‘Stealin’? ’Twouldn’t be stealin’. Stealin’ ’s what that damn
monkey-chaser tried to do from you. This would be doin’ Tony a favor
an’ gettin’ y’self out o’ the barrel. What’s the hold-back?’

‘What make you keep callin’ him monkey-chaser?’

‘West Indian. That’s another thing. Any time y’ can knife a monk, do
it. They’s too damn many of ’em here. They’re an achin’ pain.’

‘Jess de way white folks feels ’bout niggers.’

‘Damn that. How ’bout it? Y’ want the job?’

‘Hm--well--I’d ruther be a policeman.’

‘Policeman?’ Uggam gasped.

‘M-hm. Dass all I wants to be, a policeman, so I kin police all the
white folks right plumb in jail!’

Uggam said seriously, ‘Well, y’ might work up to that. But it takes
time. An’ y’ve got to eat while y’re waitin’.’ He paused to let this
penetrate. ‘Now, how ’bout this job at Tony’s in the meantime? I
should think y’d jump at it.’

King Solomon was persuaded.

‘Hm--well--reckon I does,’ he said slowly.

‘Now y’re tootin’!’ Uggam’s two big front teeth popped out in a grin of
genuine pleasure. ‘Come on. Let’s go.’


                                   IV

Spitting blood and crying with rage, the West Indian scrambled to
his feet. For a moment he stood in front of the store gesticulating
furiously and jabbering shrill threats and unintelligible curses. Then
abruptly he stopped and took himself off.

King Solomon Gillis, mildly puzzled, watched him from Tony’s doorway.
‘I jess give him a li’l shove,’ he said to himself, ’an’ he roll’ clean
’cross de sidewalk.’ And a little later, disgustedly, ‘Monkey-chaser!’
he grunted, and went back to his sweeping.

‘Well, big boy, how y’ comin’ on?’

Gillis dropped his broom. ‘Hay-o, Mouse. Wha’ you been las’ two-three
days?’

‘Oh, around. Gettin’ on all right here? Had any trouble?’

‘Deed I ain’t--’ceptin’ jess now I had to throw ’at li’l jigger out.’

‘Who? The monk?’

‘M-hm. He sho’ Lawd doan like me in his job. Look like he think I stole
it from him, stiddy him tryin’ to steal from me. Had to push him down
sho’ ’nuff ’fo I could git rid of ’im. Den he run off talkin’ Wes’
Indi’man an’ shakin’ his fis’ at me.’

‘Ferget it.’ Uggam glanced about. ‘Where’s Tony?’

‘Boss man? He be back direckly.’

‘Listen--like to make two or three bucks a day extra?’

‘Huh?’

‘Two or three dollars a day more’n what you’re gettin’ already?’

‘Ain’ I near ’nuff in jail now?’

‘Listen.’ King Solomon listened. Uggam hadn’t been in France for
nothing. Fact was, in France he’d learned about some valuable French
medicine. He’d brought some back with him,--little white pills,--and
while in Harlem had found a certain druggist who knew what they were
and could supply all he could use. Now there were any number of people
who would buy and pay well for as much of this French medicine as Uggam
could get. It was good for what ailed them, and they didn’t know how to
get it except through him. But he had no store in which to set up an
agency and hence no single place where his customers could go to get
what they wanted. If he had, he could sell three or four times as much
as he did.

King Solomon was in a position to help him now, same as he had helped
King Solomon. He would leave a dozen packages of the medicine--just
small envelopes that could all be carried in a coat pocket--with King
Solomon every day. Then he could simply send his customers to King
Solomon at Tony’s store. They’d make some trifling purchase, slip him a
certain coupon which Uggam had given them, and King Solomon would wrap
the little envelope of medicine with their purchase. Mustn’t let Tony
catch on, because he might object, and then the whole scheme would go
gaflooey. Of course it wouldn’t really be hurting Tony any. Wouldn’t it
increase the number of his customers?

Finally, at the end of each day, Uggam would meet King Solomon some
place and give him a quarter for each coupon he held. There’d be at
least ten or twelve a day--two and a half or three dollars plumb extra!
Eighteen or twenty dollars a week ‘Dog-gone!’ breathed Gillis.

‘Does Tony ever leave you here alone?’

‘M-hm. Jess started dis mawnin’. Doan nobody much come round ’tween ten
an’ twelve, so he done took to doin’ his buyin’ right ’long ’bout dat
time. Nobody hyeh but me fo’ ’n hour or so.’

‘Good. I’ll try to get my folks to come ’round here mostly while Tony’s
out, see?’

‘I doan miss.’

‘Sure y’ get the idea, now?’ Uggam carefully explained it all again. By
the time he had finished, King Solomon was wallowing in gratitude.

‘Mouse, you sho’ is been a friend to me. Why, ’f ’t hadn’ been fo’
you--’

‘Bottle it,’ said Uggam. ‘I’ll be round to your room tonight with
enough stuff for tomorrer, see? Be sure’n be there.’

‘Won’t be nowha’ else.’

‘An’ remember, this is all jess between you ’n me.’

‘Nobody else but,’ vowed King Solomon.

Uggam grinned to himself as he went on his way. ‘Dumb Oscar! Wonder how
much can we make before the cops nab him? French medicine--Humph!’


                                   V

Tony Gabrielli, an oblate Neapolitan of enormous equator, wabbled
heavily out of his store and settled himself over a soap box.

Usually Tony enjoyed sitting out front thus in the evening, when his
helper had gone home and his trade was slackest. He liked to watch the
little Gabriellis playing over the sidewalk with the little Levys and
Johnsons; the trios and quartettes of brightly dressed, dark-skinned
girls merrily out for a stroll; the slovenly gaited, darker men, who
eyed them up and down and commented to each other with an unsuppressed
‘Hot damn!’ or ‘Oh no, now!’

But tonight Tony was troubled. Something was wrong in the store;
something was different since the arrival of King Solomon Gillis. The
new man had seemed to prove himself honest and trustworthy, it was
true. Tony had tested him, as he always tested a new man, by apparently
leaving him alone in charge for two or three mornings. As a matter
of fact, the new man was never under more vigilant observation than
during these two or three mornings. Tony’s store was a modification of
the front rooms of his flat and was in direct communication with it by
way of a glass-windowed door in the rear. Tony always managed to get
back into his flat via the side street entrance and watch the new man
through this unobtrusive glass-windowed door. If anything excited his
suspicion, like unwarranted interest in the cash register, he walked
unexpectedly out of this door to surprise the offender in the act.
Thereafter he would have no more such trouble. But he had not succeeded
in seeing King Solomon steal even an apple.

What he had observed, however, was that the number of customers that
came into the store during the morning’s slack hour had pronouncedly
increased in the last few days. Before, there had been three or four.
Now there were twelve or fifteen. The mysterious thing about it was
that their purchases totaled little more than those of the original
three or four.

Yesterday and today Tony had elected to be in the store at the time
when, on the other days, he had been out. But Gillis had not been
overcharging or short-changing; for when Tony waited on the customers
himself--strange faces all--he found that they bought something like a
yeast cake or a five-cent loaf of bread. It was puzzling. Why should
strangers leave their own neighborhoods and repeatedly come to him
for a yeast cake or a loaf of bread? They were not new neighbors.
New neighbors would have bought more variously and extensively and
at different times of day. Living near by, they would have come in,
the men often in shirtsleeves and slippers, the women in kimonos,
with boudoir caps covering their lumpy heads. They would have sent in
strange children for things like yeast cakes and loaves of bread. And
why did not some of them come in at night when the new helper was off
duty?

As for accosting Gillis on suspicion, Tony was too wise for that.
Patronage had a queer way of shifting itself in Harlem. You lost your
temper and let slip a single ‘_nègre_.’ A week later you sold your
business.

Spread over his soap box, with his pudgy hands clasped on his
preposterous paunch, Tony sat and wondered. Two men came up,
conspicuous for no other reason than that they were white. They
displayed extreme nervousness, looking about as if afraid of being
seen; and when one of them spoke to Tony it was in a husky, toneless,
blowing voice, like the sound of a dirty phonograph record.

‘Are you Antonio Gabrielli?’

‘Yes, sure.’ Strange behavior for such lusty-looking fellows. He
who had spoken unsmilingly winked first one eye then the other, and
indicated by a gesture of his head that they should enter the store.
His companion looked cautiously up and down the Avenue, while Tony,
wondering what ailed them, rolled to his feet and puffingly led the way.

Inside, the spokesman snuffled, gave his shoulders a queer little
hunch, and asked, ‘Can you fix us up, buddy?’ The other glanced
restlessly about the place as if he were constantly hearing
unaccountable noises.

Tony thought he understood clearly now. ‘Booze, ’ey?’ he smiled.
‘Sorry--I no got.’

‘Booze? Hell, no!’ The voice dwindled to a throaty whisper. ‘Dope.
Coke, milk, dice--anything. Name your price. Got to have it.’

‘Dope?’ Tony was entirely at a loss. ‘What’s a dis, dope?’

‘Aw, lay off, brother. We’re in on this. Here.’ He handed Tony a piece
of paper. ‘Froggy gave us a coupon. Come on. You can’t go wrong.’

‘I no got,’ insisted the perplexed Tony; nor could he be budged on that
point.

Quite suddenly the manner of both men changed. ‘All right,’ said the
first angrily, in a voice as robust as his body. ‘All right, you’re
clever, You no got. Well, you will get. You’ll get twenty years!’

‘Twenty year? Whadda you talk?’

‘Wait a minute, Mac,’ said the second caller. ‘Maybe the wop’s on the
level. Look here, Tony, we’re officers, see? Policemen.’ He produced a
badge. ‘A couple of weeks ago a guy was brought in dying for the want
of a shot, see? Dope--he needed some dope--like this--in his arm. See?
Well, we tried to make him tell us where he’d been getting it, but he
was too weak. He croaked next day. Evidently he hadn’t had money enough
to buy any more.

‘Well, this morning a little nigger that goes by the name of Froggy was
brought into the precinct pretty well doped up. When he finally came
to, he swore he got the stuff here at your store. Of course, we’ve just
been trying to trick you into giving yourself away, but you don’t bite.
Now what’s your game? Know anything about this?’

Tony understood. I dunno,’ he said slowly; and then his own problem
whose contemplation his callers had interrupted, occurred to him.
‘Sure!’ he exclaimed. ‘Wait. Maybeso I know somet’ing.’

‘All right. Spill it.’

‘I got a new man, work-a for me.’ And he told them what he had noted
since King Solomon Gillis came.

‘Sounds interesting. Where is this guy?’

‘Here in da store--all day.’

‘Be here tomorrow?’

‘Sure. All day.’

‘All right. We’ll drop in tomorrow and give him the eye. Maybe he’s our
man.’

‘Sure. Come ten o’clock. I show you,’ promised Tony.


                                   VI

Even the oldest and rattiest cabarets in Harlem have sense of shame
enough to hide themselves under the ground--for instance, Edwards’s.
To get into Edwards’s you casually enter a dimly lighted corner
saloon, apparently--only apparently--a subdued memory of brighter
days. What was once the family entrance is now a side entrance for
ladies. Supporting yourself against close walls, you crouchingly
descend a narrow, twisted staircase until, with a final turn, you find
yourself in a glaring, long, low basement. In a moment your eyes become
accustomed to the haze of tobacco smoke. You see men and women seated
at wire-legged, white-topped tables, which are covered with half-empty
bottles and glasses; you trace the slow-jazz accompaniment you heard
as you came down the stairs to a pianist, a cornetist, and a drummer
on a little platform at the far end of the room. There is a cleared
space from the foot of the stairs, where you are standing, to the
platform where this orchestra is mounted, and in it a tall brown girl
is swaying from side to side and rhythmically proclaiming that she has
the world in a jug and the stopper in her hand. Behind a counter at
your left sits a fat, bald, tea-colored Negro, and you wonder if this
is Edwards--Edwards, who stands in with the police, with the political
bosses, with the importers of wines and worse. A white-vested waiter
hustles you to a seat and takes your order. The song’s tempo changes to
a quicker; the drum and the cornet rip out a fanfare, almost drowning
the piano; the girl catches up her dress and begins to dance....

Gillis’s wondering eyes had been roaming about. They stopped.

‘Look, Mouse!’ he whispered. ‘Look a-yonder!’

‘Look at what?’

‘Dog-gone if it ain’ de self-same gal!’

‘Wha’ d’ ye mean, self-same girl?’

‘Over yonder, wi’ de green stockin’s. Dass de gal made me knock over
dem apples fust day I come to town. ’Member? Been wishin’ I could see
her ev’y sence.’

‘What for?’ Uggam wondered.

King Solomon grew confidential. ‘Ain’ but two things in dis world,
Mouse, I really wants. One is to be a policeman. Been wantin’ dat ev’y
sence I seen dat cullud traffic-cop dat day. Other is to git myse’f a
gal lak dat one over yonder!’

‘You’ll do it,’ laughed Uggam, ‘if you live long enough.’

‘Who dat wid her?’

‘How ’n hell do I know?’

‘He cullud?’

‘Don’t look like it. Why? What of it?’

‘Hm--nuthin’--’

‘How many coupons y’ got tonight?’

‘Ten.’ King Solomon handed them over.

‘Y’ ought to’ve slipt ’em to me under the table, but it’s all right
now, long as we got this table to ourselves. Here’s y’ medicine for
tomorrer.’

‘Wha’?’

‘Reach under the table.’

Gillis secured and pocketed the medicine.

‘An’ here’s two-fifty for a good day’s work.’ Uggam passed the money
over. Perhaps he grew careless; certainly the passing this time was
above the table, in plain sight.

‘Thanks, Mouse.’

Two white men had been watching Gillis and Uggam from a table near by.
In the tumult of merriment that rewarded the entertainer’s most recent
and daring effort, one of these men, with a word to the other, came
over and took the vacant chair beside Gillis.

‘Is your name Gillis?’

‘’Tain’ nuthin’ else.’

Uggam’s eyes narrowed.

The white man showed King Solomon a police officer’s badge.

‘You’re wanted for dope-peddling. Will you come along without trouble?’

‘Fo’ what?’

‘Violation of the narcotic law--dope-selling.’

‘Who--me?’

‘Come on, now, lay off that stuff. I saw what happened just now
myself.’ He addressed Uggam. ‘Do you know this fellow?’

‘Nope. Never saw him before tonight.’

‘Didn’t I just see him sell you something?’

‘Guess you did. We happened to be sittin’ here at the same table and
got to talkin’. After a while I says I can’t seem to sleep nights, so
he offers me sump’n he says’ll make me sleep, all right. I don’t know
what it is, but he says he uses it himself an’ I offers to pay him what
it cost him. That’s how I come to take it. Guess he’s got more in his
pocket there now.’

The detective reached deftly into the coat pocket of the dumfounded
King Solomon and withdrew a packet of envelopes. He tore off a corner
of one, emptied a half-dozen tiny white tablets into his palm, and
sneered triumphantly. ‘You’ll make a good witness,’ he told Uggam.

The entertainer was issuing an ultimatum to all sweet mammas who
dared to monkey round her loving man. Her audience was absorbed and
delighted, with the exception of one couple--the girl with the green
stockings and her escort. They sat directly in the line of vision of
King Solomon’s wide eyes, which, in the calamity that had descended
upon him, for the moment saw nothing.

‘Are you coming without trouble?’

Mouse Uggam, his friend. Harlem. Land of plenty. City of refuge--city
of refuge. If you live long enough----

Consciousness of what was happening between the pair across the room
suddenly broke through Gillis’s daze like flame through smoke. The man
was trying to kiss the girl and she was resisting. Gillis jumped up.
The detective, taking the act for an attempt at escape, jumped with him
and was quick enough to intercept him. The second officer came at once
to his fellow’s aid, blowing his whistle several times as he came.

People overturned chairs getting out of the way, but nobody ran for
the door. It was an old crowd. A fight was a treat; and the tall Negro
could fight.

‘Judas Priest!’

‘Did you see that?’

‘Damn!’

White--both white. Five of Mose Joplin’s horses. Poisoning a well. A
year’s crops. Green stockings--white--white--

‘That’s the time, papa!’

‘Do it, big boy!’

‘Good night!’

Uggam watched tensely, with one eye on the door. The second cop had
blown for help----

Downing one of the detectives a third time and turning to grapple again
with the other, Gillis found himself face to face with a uniformed
black policeman.

He stopped as if stunned. For a moment he simply stared. Into his mind
swept his own words like a forgotten song, suddenly recalled:

‘Cullud policemans!’

The officer stood ready, awaiting his rush.

‘Even--got--cullud--policemans----’

Very slowly King Solomon’s arms relaxed; very slowly he stood erect;
and the grin that came over his features had something exultant about
it.


FOOTNOTES:

     [8] Copyright, 1925, by The Atlantic Monthly Company.
         Copyright, 1926, by Rudolph Fisher.




                         AN ARMY WITH BANNERS[9]

                     By KATHARINE FULLERTON GEROULD

                       (From _Harper’s Magazine_)


Lewis Hunting, like thousands of other young Americans, was a bond
salesman. He had a kind of wayward handsomeness that endeared him to
women, together with a deep voice and a gravely pleasant manner--both
purely physical attributes--which prevented his good looks getting
on the nerves of the men he dealt with. He was moderately successful
in business, was always well dressed and provided with the comforts
of life. A good many of those comforts, naturally, went into his
expense account; but when he was not traveling, he lived with his
widowed mother, whom he partly supported, in a commonplace but not
uncomfortable suburban house. His mother, who adored him, accepted
everything he would give her as the reward of her adoration. His father
had hoped to send Lewis to a good technical school, but he died at an
unlucky moment for Lewis--at the precise time, that is, when Lewis had
finished his high school course and could be considered old enough to
earn his living. College would have meant sacrifices on his mother’s
part which she would have thought unnatural when she had a son who
was six feet tall. Lewis also would have thought them unnatural--for
_his_ mother; though he saw the mothers of other young men moving into
apartments and doing their own work without thereby disfiguring the
noble countenance of Nature.

Lewis Hunting was no moralist. He had to work, and he did work. He
was much away from home, and he fell into a few casual adventures
that would have shocked his mother hopelessly. These adventures were
very few, however; not because Lewis minded doing things that would
have shocked his mother, had she known about them, but because even
near-dissipation costs money; and he never forget that his financial
margin was hers, not his own. The adventures were fairly sordid, as the
limited contacts offered to a young man in strange cities are apt to
make them, and his cynicism was deepened by them. In his later twenties
Lewis was living about as lonely an existence as a young bond salesman
can. When he was at the home office, he spent most of his evenings
with his mother (she complained a great deal of loneliness)--reading,
talking or listening to her phonograph. When he was abroad in the
land--which was most of the year--he mitigated the solitude of hotel
rooms with visits to movie theaters or pool rooms. Mild flirtations he
could find anywhere, owing to his good looks and engaging smile; but
he was very wary of anything more intimate or dramatic. He knew very
little about women, though he considered that he had plumbed female
psychology with an unerring lead line. Most women, he decided, were on
the make and no good. Girls he had known at school, who had married his
more prosperous comrades, seemed--unless they were sunk invisibly into
nurseries--as shameless as the others. One or two of them, indeed, made
love to him; and that shocked Lewis almost as much as it would have
shocked Mrs. Hunting.

You see him, then--young, bewildered, faintly unhappy and vaguely
aspiring beneath the cynicism that kept its visible smoothness in the
face of the smuttiest story or the most shameless of feminine advances.
The fact was that Lewis would have expanded most naturally in the
society of the nicest people, and he never met them. Mrs. Hunting made
it a virtue to be too delicate and too sorrowful for social contacts,
and he had no relations that would have knit him up, in this or that
city, with the local aristocracy. He was diffident with men who had
been through college--probably no one ever knew how he had grieved over
the frustration of his and his father’s hopes--and his diffidence took
the form of refusing, with such, to mix business and pleasure. So even
old customers, once rebuffed, did not ask him to their homes. Being,
on the whole, irreligious, he eschewed all sociabilities that had a
sectarian tinge.

Not a very strong person to stand up against circumstances or events
or other people’s desires. That cynicism of his, after all, was only
skin-deep, and the boy beneath was soft. When Netta Jacobs decided to
marry him, he was virtually helpless, for Netta was not only supple and
alluring--she was clever. When I say clever, I do not mean to praise
her understanding or her wit. She was clever like a very clever animal:
she had the instinct of self-preservation so strongly developed that
she selected without difficulty the tone, the gesture, the look that
would serve her purpose. She was a finished egotist, if you like,
though “egotist” seems too big a word for her. It implies cerebration,
and Netta had no cerebration. She had the protective coloring of the
white ermine, the adaptability of the giraffe that can lengthen its
neck to crop the topmost leaves, of the creature that has developed
a lung fit to breathe both air and water. Only, unluckily, she was
neither giraffe nor fish; she was human and capable of passion--of that
complicated emotion which does not afflict the lower mammals. The lion
stalking his prey is far less terrible than the person who wants to
possess another human being, not only physically and financially but
socially, mentally, and morally. Netta never put it to herself in that
way, but it was so. She fell in love with Lewis Hunting, and her whole
organism set itself automatically to the task of acquiring him. It is
not often that one person desires another with the totality of his
being. Thus Netta desired Lewis. She had no moral sense; but if she had
had one, that too would have clung to him. Lewis, of course, had not
the faintest chance against her; and between the hour when he first saw
her in Jere Wheaton’s office, and the hour of the wedding among dusty
palms and withering blossoms in the living room of her married sister’s
apartment, only four months elapsed.

They lived with Lewis’s mother in the not uncomfortable suburban
house. Netta intended to change all that; but the best equipped
organism recognizes impossibilities--temporary ones. In order to get
his mother to consent to the marriage at all, Lewis had had to make
absurd and vast concessions. She made it clear to him that if he
chucked her and married without her consent, he would literally end
her life. Besides, there was the question of money. Either Netta would
have to live with Mrs. Hunting, or Mrs. Hunting would have to go to
a cheap boarding-house. Netta, who would not have cared in the least
if Mrs. Hunting had had to live in a Salvation Army Home or the State
penitentiary, realized that she would have to give in. For the time
being, Lewis was not yet completely her creature, and you might as
well ask him to break a blood vessel as to turn his mother by force
out of her house. Nothing would be easier for her than to make--after
marriage--the situation impossible.

That, of course, she proceeded to do, though it took a fairly long
time on account of Lewis’s protracted absences from home. Given Mrs.
Hunting, it was quite easy. Lewis’s mother, deprived of her dominance,
was acutely uncomfortable. She hated Netta, she thought Lewis deluded
and doomed, and she kept herself within bounds only because she knew
she was playing a losing game. If Netta had been a gentle soul, Mrs.
Hunting would probably have made her supremely unhappy. Netta was not
a gentle soul, and she made Mrs. Hunting unhappy instead. When Lewis
was at home, both women made him feel them pathetic--suffering untold
things for love of him. Netta managed that, too, better than her
mother-in-law.

A year, two years wore away, and Lewis began to know despair. Netta
was all his, and her kisses made it clear. But she hated his mother,
she hated their mode of existence; she was moving slowly but surely
to the total elimination of Mrs. Hunting from their lives. So much,
for a time, was he Netta’s that if she had asked anything less, she
might have had it. But what she asked of him, he felt, was to kill his
mother. Even for Netta he could not slay. And there came, inevitably, a
time when he criticized her for asking him to.

They had it out at last, one evening in their own room, when he was
just back from a month’s trip in the South. Lewis, who had been
listening to mocking-birds and smelling cape-jessamine--his sojourns
were seldom in such romantic lands--came back with reawakened
yearnings, the old hope of beauty revivified in his foolish heart, to
find his home uglier than ever. His mother was querulous and plain,
and his wife--though as she caught him to her breast in greeting
and let her bright eyes and hair shimmer above him, he was ravished
again--seemed hard, for all the cheaply perfumed softness of her
body. He felt that there was no kindness in her and wondered, for the
first time, if Netta would ever develop that tenderness which is the
loveliest by-product of passion.

Lewis bent over his suitcase, unpacking things and flinging them
about; while Netta, standing between the twin beds, removed and folded
counterpanes and pillow covers and wound the clock on the bed-table.
Little, intimate, beloved gestures ... but somehow tonight he did not
love them. If he closed his tired eyes, he could smell the jessamine.
Netta’s rustlings forbade him to hear the mockingbird.

He straightened himself finally and snapped the suitcase shut. Netta
came towards him in all the luxury of orchid négligée and cap.

“Tired, honey?” She stretched her arms and yawned a little.

The answer to that was “No.” If he said “Yes,” she would be close to
him, enfolding him, comforting him, making him forget everything but
the physical fact of her. That, he did not wish. “I’ve got a beastly
headache,” he said quietly.

The barrier was now built between them, and she walked away to her
dressing-table. “Want some aspirin?” she asked over her shoulder.

“No, thanks.” Lewis often made these little mistakes. By his refusal of
aspirin he revealed to her that he had no headache.

“Oh--just cross.”

“Isn’t it enough to make anybody cross--the kind of thing I come back
to?”

“I’m very sorry you have to come back to it, Lewis. But you would have
it that way, you know.”

“You certainly don’t try to make it any better.”

“You’d better drop that right now,” she warned him. “It doesn’t seem
to occur to you that, at least, when you come back to it, I’m here. I
live with it, weeks on end, when you aren’t here.”

“If you mean, Net, that it’s all mother’s fault, you’re wrong. She
wasn’t like this until you came and made her so. What makes the house
so deadly is that you quarrel with her all the time. I’m always having
to apologize to one of you for the other. I’m about fed up with it.”

“Oh, you are, are you? And what about me? I’ve been pretty patient, I
think, but if you’re going to crab things, I think I’ll have my say.
I tell you I live with it all the time. It’s a good deal worse when
you’re not there, because she’s afraid of you. And I don’t intend to
live with it much longer.”

He didn’t want to quarrel, he reflected wearily. Why did he have to?
But his exacerbated nerves spoke for him. “I honestly believe it’s more
your fault than hers, because you’re young and strong and she’s old and
weak. She’s a sick woman, half the time--has been for years. It won’t
be for long, Netta.”

“You can bet it won’t be for long,” she murmured intensely. She, too,
was irritated; irritated because, as always, his figure there before
her set her heart to beating. She did not want to quarrel, either;
she wanted him to make love to her. He wouldn’t; and therefore they
quarrelled. But Lewis surprised her. Standing there with folded arms,
looking gravely across at her, he went on, “If you’d have a kid, Netta,
I believe everything would come straight. Mother would forget all about
both of us if she had a grandchild to fuss over. And you’d be too busy
and happy to mind little things.”

She did not recover at once from her astonishment. “You honestly mean
that, Lewis? You’d like me to have a baby?”

“I’d like us to have a baby, of course,” he answered quietly. “What did
you suppose?”

“Well, if you want a child, Lewis”--she too spoke very quietly--“you’ll
have to marry somebody else. I’ll never have one if I can help it--and
I guess I _can_ help it.”

“I don’t doubt it.” He turned away.

Netta, however, was not through. She had waited long enough for this
issue to define itself. As well now as any other time. He had given her
the cue with his reproaches.

“And I’ve got something else to say,” she proceeded. “I love you,
Lewis, and you know it. I’ve tried out this idea of yours about living
with your mother. You can’t say I haven’t given it a chance--for more
than two years. Now, either it gets broken up and you and I take an
apartment by ourselves, or I take a job and have a room of my own in
town, and you stick with her if you want to. But you can’t have us both
any longer. And I wouldn’t live in this house even if she went away. I
don’t want a house, anyway, unless I’m a millionaire. It’s up to you.”

His face crimsoned. “You know as well as anything that I can’t run an
apartment and this house both.”

“I’m willing to take a job, anyhow,” Netta returned triumphantly.

“It would take all you made in any job to dress you. The kind of thing
you put on your back costs money.”

“How about your own clothes?”

“I have to be decent to do business. But I don’t buy myself fur coats
and mesh bags--or the sort of thing you’ve got on at the present
minute. I’m not blaming you for wanting clothes, Net--I guess every
woman does--but unless we live right here I can’t swing it. Even if you
earned money yourself, I couldn’t afford to keep mother in this house,
with a maid, while we were somewhere else. I’ll be making more money
next year. We’ll see. It would be pretty hard on mother to leave her;
but maybe if I can afford to keep her here, the way she is....”

“All right,” Netta’s voice trembled. “I’ll look for that job--_and_
that room. It isn’t of any importance to me that your mother should
live in this house--or any house or whether she has anybody to work for
her or not. I’ve lived with her for two years, and you can take it from
me, she’s the limit. You can live with her if you want to. I won’t--not
another week! This family stuff doesn’t go down with me--any of it.”
She laughed unpleasantly. “If you come to your senses any time and want
to treat your wife properly, you’ll know where to find me. I’ve never
looked at another man and don’t expect to. There’s nothing gay about
me.”

Curiously enough, it was just at the moment when Netta declared herself
innocent of intent to wrong him that the idea of divorce first entered,
explicitly, Lewis Hunting’s mind. In that tired nervous hour he did not
care whether she flirted--or more--with a dozen men. He had come to
her that evening after a journey that had reawakened old desires--for
peace, for sweetness, for calm domesticity, for affections normally
diffused, for passion expressed in ways that were not wholly of the
flesh. Netta knew as well as he what he could do and what he could not.
She asked of him to forsake all duties and take her to some perfumed
lair where they could lie as beasts at ease. He no longer cared much
for his mother--Netta had finished off that job very neatly--but her
hold on him was immemorial. He had no desire to live with her, but
he would never fling her out of doors to die. If Netta would only
wait another year--but she wouldn’t wait, she said; and after all (he
asked himself) what would they be waiting for? Netta would not have a
child, she would not have a home, she would not have anything--except
love-making, which must some day cease. In that hour he knew that he
could not endure forever the life Netta offered him, and from that
moment, really, began his wary plotting for freedom. Standing there
delicately clad, flushed and tempting, she was desirable in his eyes
... but, inevitably, after two years she had ceased to be a miracle.
She, so prodigal of lures, had neglected every lure she might have
spread for his incorporeal imagination. Even passion must be bolstered
up, quickened, preserved by something besides itself. Netta, he thought
coldly, had counted too much on passion. Oh, yes, he could kiss her
and draw her bright head to his shoulder--and like it; but her perfume
would destroy the memory of jessamine, her voice the echo of the
mocking-bird. Tired, tired he was....

“All right, Netta. Take your job and hire your room. Perhaps you’ll
come to feel differently about it.” And already he was hoping that she
wouldn’t.

She breathed hard. “You mean it? You’d rather have your mother than me?”

“No, I wouldn’t. I don’t like the way we live. But I’m not willing to
kill her to please you. So if you can’t stand it any longer, you’ll
have to do as you like. As I say, you may change your mind.”

She wept softly. “I love you so, Lewis. It isn’t fair.”

His lips tightened. “And I love you, Netta. But it doesn’t seem to be
enough, does it?” He kept the width of the room between them. He did
not wish to be drawn into the quick charm of her proximity. “I shall
have to be away a good deal the next months. They’re thinking about a
Western branch, and I may have to talk it up out there, more or less.
It would be worse than ever for you here, I suppose.”

“And when you come back, Lewis, are you coming to your mother or to me?”

He hadn’t thought of that. But of course he couldn’t plan anything yet.
“We could both come here, at those times, couldn’t we?” he temporized.

Her anger flared up. “No! When I’m once out of this house, I’ll never
set foot in it again--except for a funeral.”

That was the end, he thought. Funny that she shouldn’t know it was the
end--which was not reasonable of Lewis, for cruel things had been said
before and ignored if not truly forgotten.

“We’ll talk tomorrow. I’m awfully tired now. Good-night.” He slipped
into his bed, leaving her to put out the lamp and raise the windows.
His tone was utterly spent, and beyond “Good-night” she did not speak
to him again.

That was the most explicit talk they had. Earlier there had
been bickerings, but all the quarrels were intended to be--and
were--smoothed out and composed. These particular statements and
retorts were never cancelled.

Netta, who really wanted Lewis more than anything else, had made the
mistake of permitting herself, temporarily, to want something else
more: freedom, frank expression of her hatred and weariness, the
luxury of a defiant gesture. Lewis, at the same moment, came to the
belief that what he wanted was peace--and love only if it brought
peace in its train. Alas! he wanted even more than peace: seemliness
in the ordering of his life, beauty in its texture--intimations of
immortality, perhaps. But peace was what he called it. “A man has a
right to some peace”--thus he cloaked, or approximated, his yearning.

Destiny then made, in his direction, a few positively affectionate
gestures. He wanted to get away, and it became his professional duty to
get away. His firm decided to establish a connection on the Coast and
kept Lewis for some months traveling between Far Western cities. Twice,
in the interval, he came East for hasty visits to the home office. He
worked hard on this job; put his very best into it; for he intended to
demand, when arrangements were completed, a Western post. Out there, it
seemed to him, he could create life anew. Time enough to make domestic
plans when he got his business completed.

Netta had found her job--she made not at all a bad secretary--and
had duly given Lewis the address of her office. On his first arrival
in the East he telephoned to her. Over the telephone she spoke
eagerly--caressed him, as it were; and Lewis, exhilarated by Western
air, soothed by long absence of domestic fret, found tenderness
creeping back into his own voice--almost, indeed, into his heart. He
could see her vivid figure across the channeled space between them. He
told her he must go to his mother’s for the night, asked her to join
him. It was good tactics, though at the moment he was not thinking of
tactics; he merely wanted every one to be happy. Perhaps, once out
there in another atmosphere, all three of them.... But Netta’s voice
slid sharply into reproach, and he felt again all the menace that lay
in her vividness.

“Indeed I will not, Lewis. You can go and see her, of course, but I’m
not going to. I should think you’d want to see me first, but if you
don’t, you can go and have dinner with her and then come back and meet
me. I can’t spring you on my landlady very well, since she’s never seen
you, but we can live at a hotel while you’re here.”

His voice changed too. “We can talk about that later. There’s no reason
why you shouldn’t be decent and go out with me, just for tonight.”

She did not know that it was an ultimatum; she misread his annoyance,
taking it for impatience, and laughed harshly. “Not much, Lewis! When
you want me, you’ll come to me. I’m a good wife, but I’m a darned poor
daughter-in-law.... Where do I meet you tonight?”

“You don’t meet me anywhere--tonight.”

He hung up the receiver, and she heard its sharp click. Even then she
did not suspect. She was still gloating over the first warmth of his
voice and could not know that the warmth had meant very little--that
her chance had been very small and that she had thrown that chance
away. Lewis did not so much blame Netta for her attitude to his mother
as accuse her, in his heart, of being a person who would make no
sacrifices to any situation that might arise. Mrs. Hunting was not so
much a special case as the sort of thing that, in a hundred forms,
might happen to any one. Netta was hard and always would be. Even
suppose his mother were dead: there would always be this or that thing
to strike Netta as intolerable. It was the principle of the thing. No;
they would never find that peace which, more than ever in an unfamiliar
and beautiful landscape, had seemed every man’s right. Netta waited in
vain for a sign from him. She got none.

Netta, unaware that Hunting was expecting to be definitely settled in
the West, thought a waiting game the wisest. If he once came back to
living in his mother’s house, he wouldn’t be able to bear her absence.
He’d come running, she believed. But he never did live there without
her, and the place never had a chance to stir old memories. He was
continuously away and, except in connection with divorce, Netta did not
enter his mind. Her clutch was finally off him. He seemed to himself
to know her wholly, to be completely aware of her character and to
spurn it with reason. He did not know Netta wholly, as he was later to
discover; but at this time he felt supremely capable of judging her.

Lewis, whom marriage and discontent had greatly matured, did good work
for his firm. When he demanded his promotion and his transfer, he
got them both. He had worked overtime for many months, giving to his
business not only all his mind but all his secret stores of energy.
He was not working for a woman this time, but to get rid of one. The
spur was equally effective. When the “flu” hit him in San Francisco, it
found him ready prey. Later, facing a limp and helpless convalescence,
he asked for a long leave of absence, and it was granted. The length of
the holiday he asked was the period needed for a divorce under Nevada
laws.

In spite of increases and promotions, in spite of the absence of
Netta’s bills, Lewis had not a large store of money with which to buy
his freedom. He would have, he realized, to send less money to his
mother, and he wrote her frankly to that effect. He rather dreaded her
answer, though he was grim enough about his own intentions. He need
not have been afraid. Mrs. Hunting, who could not have lived in an
apartment and fended for herself in order to give his youth more scope
or his career more chance, could find both strength and money when it
came to getting rid of the daughter-in-law she detested. She could
even find the old adoration for Lewis, which had been much obscured by
jealous resentment. She saw herself once more--with Netta out of the
way--playing a winning game with her son; and her heart overflowed with
kindness to him. When these troubles were over, she and her darling boy
were going to be happy once more as they used to be. There is no doubt
that she meant what she said. She really believed that they had been
happy before his marriage; she thought of him as her darling boy. When
she dismissed her expensive maid, got an ancient cousin in to keep her
dismal company, bade Lewis send her no money until he was free and, in
addition, sent him a handsome check, she felt these actions right and
natural, a duty and a pleasure. Mrs. Hunting had despaired, and now she
had hope. Lewis would now be bound forever to his self-sacrificing,
generous, devoted mother.

Most people’s emotions are even more muddled than their minds; and
there can be no question that Mrs. Hunting, playing her unanswerable
trumps, loved Lewis more than she had ever loved him. His emotional
rejection of Netta she took for an emotional acceptance of herself. She
saw herself preferred: and it warmed her confused heart. Lewis was
misread by his mother as he had been by his wife. He knew perfectly
that they had not been happy before Netta came, and he thought his
mother’s sacrifices belated. Though he was grateful for her assistance,
the past could not be undone, and no new relation could be built up. He
was grateful that she helped instead of hindering, as he was grateful
for fine weather in place of storm. His loyalty was perhaps increased
by gratitude, but the quantity of his affection for her had long since
been fixed. He wrote to her regularly and with the utmost kindness; but
it was too late for her to push any further into his heart.

Perhaps he was the happier that no intimate relation needed
readjusting. For the first three months of Lewis Hunting’s sojourn
in the little Nevada town were by all odds the happiest of his life.
He saw his future clear, and for once he saw it bright. He had been
afraid--though reassured by his lawyer--that Netta would put up a
fight; but the fact was that Netta could not. She had no money with
which to fight the case; and she discovered very soon that, though New
York would have held her a virtuous wife, from the point of view of the
more sensitive state of Nevada she had sinned. She had refused to live
under what was legally her husband’s roof; she had explicitly refused
to give him children or a home, even to speak to his aged mother; she
had indulged, indeed, in an absolute orgy of mental cruelty. These
things were easily proved. It would have taken money to deprive Lewis
of his decree, and money she had not. Nor did Lewis have enough to
tempt any lawyer to take her case “on spec.” Netta knew that she was
beaten. Yet--had she but known it--she had allies dimly mustering on
her side. Netta was all instinct, and fate looks on instinct with a
kindly eye.

Until strength flowed back into him Lewis was content to lie on
the tiny porch of his tiny apartment, staring at the Sierras; and
the exertion of going out to his meals and seeing his lawyer, when
necessary, was sufficient to his weakened body. After some weeks,
however, he tired of watching, in solitude and silence, the dwindling
snow patches. Energy returned, subtly heightened by the hope that
was his. As the months counted themselves off, he felt Netta a lesser
and lesser burden--slipping, slipping from his back. His shoulders
ached less with the weight of her. Cheerfulness returned, and he
began to welcome the ordinary human contacts. He was not looking for
excitement, of which he well knew there was plenty. Neither poker,
roulette, bad whiskey, nor rash divorcées appealed to him. Though not
over-fastidious, he did not care to seize the day. He hoped, instead
to seize the whole of life. Certainly he intended sometime to marry
again--some girl opposed at every point to Netta; intended to have a
home, and kids, and a car, and a radio set, and (so far had he become
infected with the West) a view. He didn’t know just what she would be
like, but he would not find her here.

The doctor whom he felt obliged to consult suggested a car and long
drives in the open. He finally bought a small one out of his mother’s
check, knowing that he could sell it again. But to face the inhuman
beauty of that landscape one needs a human companion; some one who is
equally dwarfed and conquered by the uncaring peaks and the hostile
desert. Rather diffidently--you must remember that Lewis was not
vain; he undervalued his charm, indeed, since it had brought him only
Netta--he asked Mona Jeffers to drive with him; once, and then again
and again.

The girl--a poor relation--was companioning a cousin who soon found
that she need not depend on Mona for excitement. Indeed, Mona was a
mere hindrance to Mrs. Tilton on most occasions. She needed the girl
there on general principles and would not send her home; but she wanted
her out of the flat a large part of the time. Mona’s insipidity, to
Mrs. Tilton’s mind, was complete. She used her as she needed her, but
she used her less and less--especially after she discovered roulette
and acquired a rather shady lover. So the colorless Mona was free to
sit beside Lewis while they drove afar. Her quietness, her decency,
her very lack of good looks soothed him who was tired alike of Venus
and the Furies. Love never entered his head. He expected that shadowy
future bride to be handsomer than Mona--for men demand everything and
are not satisfied until sex blinds them into thinking they have got
it. They were blithe days for Lewis: health recovered, hope enlarging
itself on his horizon, the weeks passing swiftly by, the little car for
magic carpet, and Mona to exorcise the demons of the hills. Every one
was civil to him, and he rejected far more advances than he accepted.
All pointed to his being, through a long life, a happy and useful
citizen. Lewis, who was an unimaginative creature, found sanctions all
about him for his content. He called them omens or “hunches.”

Without being superstitious or sentimental one may suspect that Nature
lays traps for mortals, and that the trap is no less a trap for being
seldom sprung. No doubt, for that matter, a man often comes through
unscathed. There is a spot--a sharp turn of the precipitous road, where
a man is uplifted for an instant, defenseless and naked to his stalkers
above him on all sides--which goes (not without reason) by the name
of Dead Man’s Point. The term inherits from the days when those who
fetched gold from Virginia City were apt to lose it--and necessarily
their lives--at this place. For a few moments as he toiled past a man
became, in the nature of things, a target; his best friend would have
taken imaginary sight and aim. When you had finished him--in the old
days--the disposal of the body offered no difficulties. You rolled him
over the precipice into the trackless gorge, and sheriffs were thereby
confounded. Booty on that road is now as rare as bandits. Nature,
however, pays little attention to the infinitesimal changes of human
history: her traps remain traps. Some spots are forever sinister,
and this is one of them. The gold may have gone, but, for a softer
generation, the view remains; and a foolish youth with bad liquor
inside him, driving a car too fast, is as perilous as two guns and a
total lack of morals ever were.

There was nothing in Lewis Hunting’s heart to cope with that view,
which is desolate and terrifying--and beautiful--beyond most. He
was not in its class; nor was Mona. But the mere size and scale and
arrangement of it impose themselves. You _must_ turn back to look,
at Dead Man’s Point, before you forsake that range for others. Lewis
and Mona turned to look--and Johnny Stevens, innocent of everything
but that foolish drink, crashed into them at a curious tangent. Mona
was flung free, falling, with infinite bruising of her tender flesh,
upon rock; but the tilt of the car was such that Lewis was half caught
beneath it. It rocked horridly like a hanging stone--one of those
natural wonders that attract tourists--and then, rolling over, slid
down the path of the corpses. Lewis, whose hands had stretched out
instinctively and caught themselves with desperation in a stiff clump
of sage, was left--though precariously--behind buttressed for the
moment by a few stones of which the car in its final plunge had made
nothing. They could not deter the machine, but they sufficed to deter
him until Johnny Stevens, sobered by the shock, had dragged him to
what is known as safety. Mona came later--half fainting, half crying,
but not badly injured. By the time a fresh car came over the pass and
picked them up, Lewis was luckily unconscious. They wound slowly home,
and Nature--a beast, first, last, and all the time except when she is
broke to the service of God--resumed her wise, incomparable smile. A
little thing like loose wreckage cannot mar a view like that.

Science, which loves the part more than the whole, took hold of Lewis
Hunting and made him one of her choicest fragments. No one could have
blamed those able surgeons for being proud of themselves; but, true
to type, they were not that: they were proud of Lewis. Half a healthy
man is better than a whole man with a trace of sepsis; and Lewis--both
legs neatly shorn off between knee and hip--was Exhibit A, a victory,
an exultation. His blood was pure, his heart strong, his constitution
magnificent, his recovery just what the recovery of the normal man
should be. He had not hampered either Nature or Science in any way.
The doctors felt affection for him because of his strong heart and
untainted blood, and assured him earnestly that there was no reason why
he should not live for fifty years. Lewis heard the words but did not
measure their full significance until later.

Numbers of people came to see him in the hospital; flowers and fruits
stood about until his eyes wearied of them. He was setting his teeth
harder than he had ever done in his life, and he could not unclasp his
jaws to breathe the sweetness of roses or taste the pulp of figs. His
lawyer had, at his request, written--not telegraphed--to his mother;
and in the letter lay a plain request that the news should be kept, by
hook or crook, from Netta. The lawyer humored him, writing precisely
what Lewis wished; but as that miraculous convalescence progressed,
he wondered. No one, of course, would be such a brute as to suggest
to Lewis that he change his plans to match his prospects. But--well,
_but_.... They moved him to the hotel when he left the hospital, and
guests and employees vied with each other for the task of pushing his
wheelchair in and out of the elevator and dining room. A visiting nurse
did the necessary things for a time, but the wounds healed as by a
miracle. Six weeks after the accident Lewis was tensely calm: adjusting
himself; writing to his firm; trying to apprehend, little by little,
what a man with no legs would be able to do for fifty years. His mental
mood had not yet relaxed to despair, and his body inflicted no fevers,
no relapses upon him. But as he had not reckoned with Nature, so he had
not reckoned with Netta, who was Nature’s protégée.

Mrs. Hunting--distraught, half maddened--had for a time kept Lewis’s
command not to let Netta know. But though Netta never read newspapers
and had few intimate friends, the news eventually came to her. Some
one had noticed the identity of names. The moment Netta heard of it,
she asked permission to absent herself, and rushed to Mrs. Hunting’s
suburban home. She made no mistakes this time: her instincts served
her well. Lewis’s mother had become, by this stroke, her chief ally,
and from the first moment Netta treated her as such. Within an hour
she had got from Mrs. Hunting precisely what she wanted. Nor is Mrs.
Hunting to be too much blamed for playing into Netta’s hands. She had
cried over the maiming of her boy, her heart had indeed been well-nigh
broken. Yet, confusedly, she saw him as wreckage--beloved wreckage, no
doubt; but there was no triumph in possessing him. She had wanted him
all to herself, and now, inevitably, she had him thus; and her weak
old shoulders trembled under the burden. Being everything to him,
as he had hitherto defined it, was being the chief recipient of his
favors. The poor woman was discouraged to the marrow; she had no gift
for meeting new and shattering situations. Her grievance against Netta
had always been on her own behalf--not really on her son’s. She was,
of course, leagues away from understanding Lewis, who had indeed never
done her the honor of explaining himself to her.

Netta cooed over her, Netta wrapped her in pity and compliments, Netta
expressed remorse as inclusive as it was vague. Only the last of their
talk need be recorded; and much had been decided between them earlier.

“But, Netta, how can I let you go when he told me not to let you know?”

“You can’t keep me from him. My boss will lend me the money to go, if I
ask him.”

“No, no. I’ll give you the money. But do you realize what it means,
Netta?”

“Do I realize? What do you take me for? I realize that Lewis is down
and out, forever.”

The feeble tears stood in Mrs. Hunting’s eyes. “Yes, that’s true. He
is. What are you going to do when you get there?”

“Take care of him, of course. He’s still my husband.”

“You forgive him for wanting to divorce you?”

Netta’s mouth twisted. Forgiveness was something she had never in the
least understood. “It has all been a horrible mistake. And now Lewis
will realize it. He’ll find that his wife is going to stand by him, no
matter what has happened. Bygones are bygones.”

“Netta”--the older woman’s voice shook--“I didn’t know you had it in
you. I guess I never understood you before.” She had never been further
from understanding Netta than she was at that moment, but she spoke
in the utmost honesty. To stick to a broken man who could give her
nothing, who had cast her off with insult ... why, Netta was wonderful.

“You’re going to take him back,” she marveled humbly.

“Sure I am.”

“He ought to worship you, Netta.”

Even Netta was a little at loss to answer that. “Lewis doesn’t worship
people, I guess. But we’ll be all right.”

“I never did believe in divorce,” sighed Mrs. Hunting. It was quite
true, and she felt reminiscently ashamed of having so welcomed her
son’s.

The two women kissed, and Netta, with Mrs. Hunting’s check in her bag,
departed to pack and make reservations. Lewis’s mother watched her go,
and pure admiration filled her heart. She wouldn’t have expected it
of Netta who could so easily, after the divorce, have married again.
If only the dear Lord would help her to carry it through! A little
toneless prayer went up that night from Mrs. Hunting’s lips that Netta
might find her strength and her reward. Netta, meanwhile, alert and
flushed, was moving about her room, packing her trunk and humming.
Never had she felt less need of pity. _She_ was again for Cydnus, to
meet Mark Antony.

Her train, she found, would arrive at a hideously inconvenient hour;
so she stopped short of her goal, had a night’s rest in another town,
and motored over in the happy morning light. Her heart was beating hard
as she faced the hotel clerk and registered. His quick, excited glance
of sympathy and admiration encouraged her. She realized afresh the
tremendous handicap in her favor. She was, after all, still a wife.

“I’ll telephone up,” stammered the clerk.

Netta bent across the counter and smiled at him gently. The result was
to make him feel that some men had all the luck. For a hopeless cripple
to get any woman back after trying to get rid of her--and such a good
looking one....

“No,” she said. “I’ve got to see him. And I think it will be easier
for both of us if I just walk in. I came as soon as I heard. Does he
suffer?” She dropped her voice sympathetically.

“Not now. He’s made a wonderful recovery, they say.”

She nodded. “I’ll just go up and knock at his door. What is the number?”

He told her. “Shall I give you a room?”

Netta flushed a little. “Suppose you wait until I come down. Here is my
trunk check.”

The elevator girl stared at Netta when she revealed her name and her
errand. As soon as Netta was well down the corridor, the girl shot the
car to the basement where her favorite bell boy would be haunting the
pool-room entrance. She crooked a finger at him. “Say, Ted, who’d you
s’pose I just took up to Mr. Hunting’s room? His wife! Gosh, she’s a
wonder--and some looker. Goin’ to take him back, I guess. Don’t you
ever talk to me about women again. There’s some of ’em that’s worth all
the men in creation.” The elevator rose, preventing retort.

Netta already had laid her finger on the pulse of Nevada. She had been
a little afraid of this special atmosphere which, she thought, might
be like nothing else in our great country. But apparently, even in the
stronghold of divorce, fidelity was valued. The mere glances of the
clerk and the elevator girl had made that clear. Nevada itself would
back her, she now suspected, just as Mrs. Hunting had done. She knocked
at Lewis’s door and entered.

Lewis sat by the window, a rug spread over him from the waist down. He
turned, expecting a bell boy. He saw Netta instead, and so profound
was the shock that it seemed instantly inevitable. The fact was too
monstrous for doubt. There was hopelessness beneath his hot flush,
though his voice was cold and stern.

“Netta! Why are you here?”

Netta took off her gloves, went into the bathroom and washed her hands.
She came back, drew up a chair near (but not too near) him and sat
down. Only then did she speak.

“I’m here to talk to you, first of all, Lewis. And then to see what I
can do for you.”

“How did you hear about this?” He pointed at the rug.

“It must have been in the papers. Some one spoke to me about it,
finally. So I went to see Mother Hunting, and she told me everything.”

“Did she know you were coming out here?”

“Why, of course she knew, Lewis. She helped me to come and gave me her
blessing.”

More virtue went out of him as he heard these words.

“My mother doesn’t understand anything about my position,” he said
harshly. “There’s nothing you can do for me. Sorry you had the trip.
And now you had better get out as soon as possible. How did they happen
to let you up here?”

Netta made no show of temper--which was ominous, Lewis thought. A row,
he considered, would be the very best thing that could happen.

“Well, you see, Lewis dear, I am still your wife. And I think,” she
spoke gently to veil the brutality of what was to come--“most people
would feel that a man in your position couldn’t refuse to see his wife,
if she were willing to see him. It isn’t as if you ever had any real
grounds against me, you know. I suppose you thought you’d marry again.
Well, I don’t see how you ever can, do you?”

“Of course I shall never marry again,” he said shortly. She had got
beneath his skin--Netta always did--and he felt weak tears starting.

“Somebody’s got to take care of you, Lewis, you know. And if your
mother and I are willing to do it, between us, I guess you can only be
thankful to us. I shall keep on working, of course.”

“I’d rather starve,” Lewis answered simply.

“That’s foolish,” his wife replied mildly “--dead silly. Where would
you starve? And how? You can be very sure of one thing, Lewis. Your
friends aren’t going to look after you while your own family stand
ready to do it.”

“Why do you come and badger me like this?” It was weak, and he knew it;
but he could not tell her in plain words that he hated her. The loss of
his physical integrity somehow made it impossible to utter so complete
and violent a truth.

Netta rose. “I suppose if I told you I loved you, Lewis, you wouldn’t
understand. But I’ve always loved you. You knew when you left me, when
you tried to divorce me, that I loved you. Do you suppose a woman
who didn’t love you would come back to you, after the way I’ve been
treated, and after what has happened to you? You can put it up to
your precious lawyer if you want to. I guess you’ll find that even in
the state of Nevada people will consider that a wife who’s ready to
forgive what I’m ready to forgive, and to take care of you the rest of
your life, is worth paying some attention to.”

“It’s no use talking, Netta. I don’t love you--not a damn bit. What do
you want me for?”

She bent over him, not touching him. “Darned if I know, Lewis. But I
do want you--and I intend to have you. I don’t see how you’re going
to stop it. No, you needn’t worry--I’m not going to kiss you. Some
day”--she looked at him strangely, scrutinizingly--“you’ll be asking
for it. I’ll wait for that, thanks.”

A bell boy knocked and entered just then to take Lewis down to the
dining room. If he was half an hour earlier than usual, he can
hardly be blamed. The hotel was buzzing from lobby to kitchen. Word
had already gone forth upon the streets of the town concerning the
beautiful forgiving wife who had appeared like an angel in the desert.
It must be remembered that in Nevada the presumption against the
forsaken spouse is not very strong.

“You had better go down alone today, Lewis,” Netta said. “I’ll go out
and do an errand or two, and lunch later.”

She left them in the lobby. There were two people she wanted to see
before she talked with Lewis again. Thanks to Mrs. Hunting, she knew
the names of both, and a telephone book did the rest.

The interview with Lewis’s lawyer came first. Netta did not attempt
to commit him to anything. She merely announced her presence and her
intentions; and she did not fail to refer obliquely to the fact that,
however the situation broke, there could be no money in it for any one.

“Of course I know you’ll have to talk with my husband,” she said
finally, as she rose. “But the fact is that he’s down and out, and
I’m willing to forget everything and work for the rest of my life to
support him. I’m afraid I am his only chance.” She shook her tawny head
a little pathetically and departed.

Netta permitted herself a sandwich and a cup of coffee before the
second encounter. It was possible, she realized, that Lewis had fallen
in love; and in spite of Netta’s brave sarcasms she knew it also to
be possible that another woman had fallen in love with him. If she,
Netta, could keep on loving him, another woman might. And if the other
woman were rich, she might even allow herself the luxury of a crippled
husband. Her hand trembled a little as she rang the bell of Mrs.
Tilton’s apartment.

She could have shouted for joy, once face to face with Mona Jeffers.
If she couldn’t cut out that pale creature, she wasn’t much good, she
opined. She prepared to do battle, rather contemptuously. But Mona
surprised her at once.

“We heard that you had come on, Mrs. Hunting. My cousin just came in
from shopping. Things get round pretty quickly in this place.” The girl
was panting slightly, and Netta watched her, catlike, to see what would
come. “Oh, I do hope it’s true, Mrs. Hunting, that you’re ready to make
it up and take him back!”

So, even if Lewis wanted this chit, she didn’t want him. She had only
Lewis to fight, after all.

“I certainly am, Miss Jeffers. I only want to stand by him and take
care of him, if he’ll let me.”

“Oh, how glad I am, Mrs. Hunting. Why”--the girl spoke softly--“it is
almost worth while it should have happened if it brings you together
again.”

Precisely what Netta had thought; but she had not expected any one else
to say it. Suspicion attacked her again.

“I wouldn’t say that, Miss Jeffers. It’s a pretty awful thing that’s
happened. But he’s my husband, and I feel we belong to each other. The
real reason I came to see you”--she went on very gravely--“was that I
knew you were together at the time of the accident. I didn’t know but
you and he had fallen in love with each other--meant to get married
when he got his decree.”

The pale girl flushed. “Oh, no, Mrs. Hunting. There wasn’t a
thing--ever!” She gave a little involuntary shiver.

Netta noted the shiver and could have laughed aloud. Whatever Lewis
might have wanted, this girl didn’t want him. Poor old Lewis! His day
of charm was over--excepting always for her. Funny: somehow he had
“got” her for all time, but it looked as if he would never “get” any
one else.

She smiled as she rose to go. “You must remember, Miss Jeffers, that
Mr. Hunting has been trying to divorce me. I don’t know yet what he
will do.”

“Do?” the girl exclaimed. “Why, of course he’ll worship you. Not many
women would do what you are doing.”

Wouldn’t they? Netta wondered silently as she went out upon the street.
Well, perhaps other people didn’t know what they wanted. She had never
been troubled that way. But it was clear to her that no one was going
to interfere with her taking on the whole burden of Lewis Hunting.
Relief was in all their voices. Netta took a room at the hotel, but
she did not try to see Lewis again. She dined outside the hotel and
filled in the evening at a movie. In the theater she was aware of being
covertly pointed out. Before retiring she sent a note to Lewis, saying
that she should not see him until he sent for her.

Lewis, however, did not take long to capitulate. After talking
with a few people he saw that, in the eyes of public opinion, he
had no case. It was cold fact that Netta was behaving with great
magnanimity. He was helpless, done for, and she was willing to take
him on. The fact that he didn’t want to live with her seemed very
small in comparison--everybody blew it away, and indeed the mere hint
of it seemed to shock. Half a man has no right to the prejudices and
preferences of the whole man. How could he fight against the heroine of
the hour? He sent for his wife on the second day, and she came at once.

“Well, Lewis?”

“Well, Netta.”

That seemed to be all. Then he said haltingly, “I am very grateful to
you, Netta.”

“You’ve got reason to be,” she answered briskly. “I’ll move next door
tomorrow, and you won’t have to hire other people to wait on you.
Perhaps I had better begin by taking you down to dinner tonight.” She
moved about the room, tidying it. Her presence seemed to flow into the
farthest crannies of the chamber, and his nerves began the old gestures
of revolt. There was never to be peace.

“Let’s go down early,” he said roughly.

“All right.” She wheeled him into the elevator and wheeled him out and
into the dining room. As they moved through the palm room, she heard
an unattractive citizen remark aside, “I’ve got pretty cynical, living
in this place; but by heck, a woman like that almost gives me back
my faith in human nature.” Evidently Lewis had heard it too, for he
flushed.

At the table he ordered, but ate little. Instead, he stared ahead of
him--still flushed and curiously, stonily handsome. They talked very
little. Netta too was flushed and shaken--with victory. She had got
Lewis back forever, and food was unimportant. Money was the thing that
was going to trouble her next.

Lewis was dealing with the future, as well as she. He was beginning to
realize--the overheard words had thrust it on him--that not only must
he live with Netta, endure her unmodulated hardness, perhaps even her
strong caresses, but must always be humble with gratitude. He would
have died rather than kneel to her, three months ago, when he had knees
to kneel with; but, symbolically, he must do just that--forever.

“Let’s stick round the lobby awhile,” he proposed.

“All right, if you want to.”

But suddenly he clutched the chair-arm. “No--upstairs!” He had wanted
to put off being alone with her, but he had been wrong. It was more
terrible to sit there with her, hero and heroine, under those cynical
eyes made soft again by the spectacle of them.

“All right,” said Netta again. “Just wait until I go to the newsstand
and get some magazines.” She left him, and he closed his eyes.

A voice in his ear made him open them. “It’s terrible for you--her
coming like this. But be brave. Nothing lasts forever. Be brave.” The
speaker passed on--a woman he had never known but whom, like all the
other hotel guests, he had noted for her distinction of bearing and
garb. She was not in the least of Lewis’s--or of the others’--world,
and she would never have employed a young woman so aggressive and sharp
as Netta.

“Who is your friend?” he heard his wife ask. Strolling back with her
magazines, she had noted the clothes, the air, the aspect of the older
woman who had paused--though barely--by her husband’s chair.

“I never spoke to her before, and I haven’t any idea,” he replied.
“There are all sorts of people round this place.”

He spoke very quietly. It was suddenly easier to be patient. Somehow
that woman, with her mere passing murmur of sympathy, had picked his
dignity out of the dust and handed it back to him. They had to wait for
the elevator, and a cold draft assailed them, blowing directly through
the little lobby from the street. Netta took off her scarf and folded
it round his shoulders with a solicitous, possessive smile. The world
looked on, with moist eyes.... Lewis set his teeth, squared his fine
shoulders, and looked straight ahead of him with pride.


FOOTNOTES:

     [9] Copyright, 1925, by Harper & Brothers.
         Copyright, 1926, by Katharine Fullerton Gerould.




                           COWARD’S CASTLE[10]

                           By WALTER GILKYSON

                      (From _The Atlantic Monthly_)

Judge Avery held his pencil poised above the typewritten page of
testimony, then marked the margin with a long firm line. He had not
remembered the plaintiff’s evidence was so clear; that young man
had brought it out very nicely with the neat indirectness of his
questions. On page forty-eight--he turned back the rustling sheets.
Yes, the witness had said about the same thing. With a faint smile of
satisfaction he leaned over and began writing on the pad that lay upon
the book-rest of his easy-chair.

For a moment he paused to read what he had written, the pencil
trembling slightly in his thin blue-veined hand; there was a look of
critical appraisal in his worn face, something vivid, keenly alive,
beneath the bloodless texture of his skin. He struck out a word,
replaced it with another; the wrinkle between his eyebrows deepened and
he smoothed the white hair above his forehead absently, then laid down
the pad. That was the last finding of fact. He would dictate the whole
and his conclusions of law before Court tomorrow.

It must be nearly five, he thought. The sunlight had shrunk to a dusty
orange bar across the red carpet at his feet; through the open window
he could hear the cooing of the pigeons, the soft rustle of their wings
as they moved upon the stone sill. Against the opposite wall the yellow
bindings of the books ran in converging rows to a well of still gray
light that seemed to gather at the end of the room; the surface of the
table in the center shone like a ruddy disk above its dark carven legs;
through the curtains that hung above the doorway to his right he could
hear the voices of the tipstaves talking in the empty courtroom outside.

Rodenbaugh was late. Evidently he was going to finish the Minturn case
this afternoon. A driving young man, Rodenbaugh--he swept uncommon
clean for a new broom. The judge smiled a little grimly, glanced down
at his knees, unpleasantly sharp and narrow beneath the neat fold
of his trousers. Old age did queer tricks to the body, things that
he didn’t like. No doubt it did the same things to the mind. He was
seventy-three. That was a warning in itself. He rose and walked to the
window, sniffed the dusty May air. He was sorry he didn’t get on better
with Rodenbaugh. It was hard, at first, to like any one who had taken
Langdon’s place on the bench.

There was a difference now, a very great difference. He shook his
head, turned and walked stiffly to his chair. The fact that he felt
the difference so keenly was a sign of his age. In his youth the old
lawyers had always complained about the decay of the bar. And he had
laughed at them just as Rodenbaugh would laugh at him now if he heard
him. Only Rodenbaugh didn’t laugh, that was the trouble. He only
smiled--a slow spreading of unparted lips, a narrowing of his eyes,
which--the judge sighed--was intensely distasteful. But--maybe it was
just as well. If Rodenbaugh once began to laugh he might laugh at
himself all day.

A step sounded on the marble outside, and the curtain was pushed
tentatively back. Old Walrath appeared, his watery blue eyes searching
the chamber with vague apology. ‘Judge Rodenbaugh been here, Judge?’
he asked. He moved forward, then hobbled down the steps. ‘I looked in
his room and he wasn’t there. He said he wanted to see Mr. Mercer at
half-past three. Mr. Mercer’s in the courtroom now.’

‘He’s still trying the Minturn case, Enoch. He’s coming here, though,
before he goes home. I don’t know what he wants with Mercer. If he’s
been waiting long I think you’d better let him go. You can call him
when the judge gets back.’

‘All right, sir.’ The old man paused, and a look of doubt crept into
his mildly truculent face. ‘You think he won’t mind? I shouldn’t like
to get him mad just after he’s come off the bench. You know, Judge,
he’s got a way, when he’s mad, of smiling just like a Chessy cat, and
passing that tongue of his over you fit to take off your skin!’ He
pulled at his long white walrus moustache and gazed at the judge. ‘I’ve
been thinking he acts pretty fiery for a young man that ain’t seen
too much of court before he become a judge. I reckon’--his eyes moved
solemnly to and fro--‘I reckon that’s why.’

Judge Avery looked at his knees; it was difficult to conceal his smile.
Of course, he oughtn’t to let Walrath talk to him that way. He ought
to reprove him sharply, and the fact that he couldn’t was clearly just
another sign of his age. He straightened his face, looked up. Walrath
was smiling at him in a curious way. Yes, by George, he was actually
smiling at him paternally underneath that white walrus moustache. The
old beggar! Really, he’d have to say something! ‘Enoch!’ He stroked his
chin, gazed through his spectacles at the bent figure standing in the
doorway. ‘You’re becoming too philosophical, I’m afraid, in your later
years. I have a suspicion you’ve taken to psycho-analysis.’

‘No, sir!’ Walrath grunted. ‘I never yet heard of it. Them experts
talks of electrolysis in the accident cases, but I never yet heard of
the sister you speak of. No, Judge--it ain’t science--you know that.’
He shook his head and began climbing the steps. ‘It’s just putting a
long time in the courtroom, the same as you and me’s both done--that,
and a little looking round, as Judge Langdon used to say.’ He paused,
the curtain clasped in his big bony hand. ‘I’m going out now and tell
Mr. Mercer he can leave, and then I’ll come back and get what papers
you want for your bag.’

Judge Avery watched the curtain settle behind him, heard the slow
stump of his footsteps across the marble. Old Walrath had stumped up
and down those steps and across that marble for nearly fifty years; he
had been a tipstaff when the judge first came to the bar. A gay ribald
young fellow, then, with a rough tongue and a surprising knowledge
of human nature, but good company, sitting on a table in the clerk’s
office, swinging his legs and imitating Melchior Van Zandt blowing his
nose at a jury. There was time to linger in the clerk’s office, in
those days; time to do many things that were forgotten now. Law was a
profession then, not a business; the lawyer reached out toward art and
letters rather than toward certified public accounting. Then Bricknell
translated Demosthenes and Judge Haynes wrote Horatian Echoes. Very
faint but quite scholarly. And every one, strangely enough, spoke and
wrote English. It seemed to be the mother tongue. He sighed. Even the
law had changed; it had lost its pattern, its design; the fine threads
of continuity were gone. Nowadays you matched facts as you matched
silk, and extracted legal principles like a dentist pulling teeth. He
rose, straightened his coat across his slender shoulders. He was old,
quite out of date. In the hurry and press of modern life there is no
time, and so forth---- Any young man could finish the sentence.

He gathered the papers from the chair, slipped an elastic about them,
and thrust them into a green-baize bag. There was no use in waiting
any longer for Rodenbaugh; he might as well take his walk and go home.
The evening dreariness was coming over him; it made him peevish and
irritable; he was likely to bite, to say something he didn’t mean, if
Rodenbaugh provoked him. He glanced at the table to see whether he had
left any papers, then at the desk. For an instant he paused, a bent
delicate figure, very clear against the square of ruddy light. The
evening dreariness was, after all, a little more than age. He gazed
at the pictures standing in leather frames within a shadowy recess
of the desk. The bright knife-like sorrow of the past was gone, but
in its place was a numb loneliness, a darkening vision, a dim sense
of drifting with blurred, loosened feeling toward some unfathomable
end. It would have been different if they had lived. He would have
understood these youngsters better then. Old age had always to look
through others’ eyes; the vistas of its own past were overwhelming.

A sharp footstep sounded outside and the curtain rings jangled angrily.
Judge Rodenbaugh’s body filled the doorway, descended with an abrupt
heaviness into the room. ‘I hope you haven’t waited, Judge,’ he said.
His small eyes moved obscurely beneath his thin eyebrows, his tall
clumsy presence seemed to permeate the place, to pervade it like a
harsh dominating breath. ‘I wanted counsel to finish their speeches
this afternoon, so I could charge the jury the first thing in the
morning.’ He seated himself in the chair by the table, his thick
shoulders thrown forward, his legs stretched out. ‘That little Kardos
is a pitiful apology,’ he said.

‘Was he trying for the plaintiff?’

‘Yes. He tries a case as if he were selling shoestrings on State
Street. He’s all tongue and no head. I’ve had to listen to him now for
two days, fumbling and backing and filling, encumbering the record with
all sorts of useless questions. Moran is against him--you know what a
good one he is! I think he was saying things to Kardos under his breath
all through the trial. I wasn’t sure. Every now and then Kardos would
stop and get sort of gray and ask his questions again. Each time he
repeated he got worse, and then Moran would get up with that suave easy
manner of his, and suggest that his friend first make known to himself
what he wanted to ask, and, after a moment’s silent communion, make it
known to the witness, who, in spite of his lawyer, seemed like quite an
intelligent man. He’s a quick one, Moran.’ The judge shook his head. ‘I
like him. He gives a case something--color, I guess you’d call it.’

‘That, or atmosphere,’ answered Judge Avery. ‘It’s sometimes fatal to
litigants, although we lawyers survive it. Well--what did Kardos do?’

‘Oh, he’d just smile that sickly smile of his, and move his hands to
and fro and wipe his face, and begin again. He’d have been funny if he
hadn’t taken up so much time. You know--that fellow Moran is a great
trial-lawyer! I never realized it so completely until today. I’d never
tried against him--I didn’t try cases, the way you did, before I came
on the bench. It doesn’t bother me, though.’ He smiled and his dark
heavy face seemed to widen slowly. ‘It’s easy to handle things from
back here, isn’t it, Judge?’

‘Yes,’ said Judge Avery. His thin mouth closed, he leaned forward a
little, his elbow upon the table, and surveyed his companion with still
luminous eyes.

‘Well!’ Rodenbaugh stretched back his shoulders, ran his hand through
the unparted hair that lay like a wig above his forehead. ‘I put an
oar in myself now and then. Yesterday, after Kardos had floundered
about for a while, I told him he ought to get a lawyer to try his case.
Up jumped Moran with that friendly manner of his and said he’d be
delighted to furnish his learned friend with a list in case he were not
acquainted with the bar. The jury laughed and Kardos stood there wiping
his face and moving his lips like a fish and then sat down. I told him
to go ahead and he pulled up his chair and began shooting questions at
the witness as if he were crying a sale. It was awful!’ He leaned back,
took some cigars from his pocket and pushed one across the table. ‘I
don’t know what we’re going to do with these fellows, Judge.’

‘Neither do I.’ Judge Avery ignored the cigar. ‘Was there something you
wanted to discuss with me? If not, I think I’ll go home.’

‘Yes, there was. I wanted to see Mercer too.’ He rose, thrust his head
through the curtains. ‘Walrath!’ he called.

‘Yes, sir!’

‘Did you get Mr. Mercer?’

‘Yes, sir. He was here. He waited till half-past four.’ Judge Avery
heard the clump of Walrath’s feet on the marble. ‘Then I let him go,
Judge. I told him I’d call him tomorrow morning.’

‘You did! What did you do that for?’

‘Judge----’

‘Well, get him now if you’re able to handle the phone! And remember,
when I send for a man I want him to wait! Exercise the authority of
your age and position, Walrath, but don’t exercise discretion. When
the vessels of the law become old crockery, they shouldn’t go to the
well too often. Move along now--don’t stand there, looking at me like a
fool.’ He turned and descended the steps. ‘Doddering old ass, Walrath,’
he said.

‘I told him to let Mercer go,’ said Judge Avery. ‘I thought you
wouldn’t want him to wait.’

‘Oh!’ The judge paused, a sulky look on his face. ‘I see. I don’t
believe Mercer’s so busy that an hour’s wait would injure his
practice.’ He sat down heavily in the chair. ‘What I wanted to talk to
you about was this--’

‘Do you mind’--Judge Avery’s voice had a curious lingering drawl--‘if
we wait a minute? There’s something I want to tell you, first.’

‘No,’ said Rodenbaugh shortly, ‘go on.’ He drummed on the table
impatiently. ‘Old Walrath’s an ass,’ he muttered under his breath.

Judge Avery smiled, a still frosty look in his clear blue eyes.
Yes. Rodenbaugh deserved something. With the exercise of a little
imagination he could give it to him completely in a way that he would
thoroughly understand. He paused, his mind penetrating--invading the
man before him. Then he leaned back, put his finger tips together, and
the little smile on his lips grew sharp. There was a certain pleasure
in the exercise of the imagination. Quite justifiable in this case. He
would tell Rodenbaugh exactly what he was.

‘It’s about myself,’ he said slowly. ‘Old men are given to telling
stories about themselves. I suppose that’s the reason they’re bores.
But I think this will interest you as a younger man. Do you mind?’

Judge Rodenbaugh turned and stared at him. ‘Not at all,’ he said.

‘That’s very kind!’ The words dropped like acid from the sardonic
lips. ‘I’ve been in a reminiscent mood all afternoon. As you’re my
defenseless colleague--brother, as the Reports call us--I’m afraid I’ll
have to impose on you.’


                                   II

‘It’s curious,’ he continued, ‘how the memories of childhood come to
the surface in old age. It’s rather the way an ebbing stream discloses
the soft formless ooze that lies beneath it. I can remember now just
how I felt as a youngster, remember all my desires and fears with a
surprising vividness. And I had plenty of fears.’ He paused, nodding
his head. ‘I think I must have been afraid of everything, when I was
young. In that way’--he lifted his eyebrows--‘I’m sure I was different
from you. Of course, I never let any one know I was afraid. I buried
it all deep down, created an image over it--an image of myself as a
valiant, aggressive, reckless youngster. But I knew it was there all
the time, and the very thought of it seemed to give me a savage desire
to show my strength. And yet I couldn’t when it came to the test. I was
afraid to fight. The other boys knew I was and so I never made friends
with boys of my own age. I always went about with the younger boys;
they couldn’t destroy this image I had created; on the contrary, it
seemed to grow larger the more I was with them. I used to bully them
like a regular little cad.

‘You know’--he shook his head--‘what boys are, Judge. Queer little
animals; just as eager to maintain their prestige as any full-grown
man, and just as clever about it, too.’ He leaned back, crossed his
sharp narrow knees. ‘Did that thought ever occur to you?’

‘I can’t say it has,’ Judge Rodenbaugh answered. His eyes searched his
companion’s face with a veiled wavering glance, then fell away. Judge
Avery lifted his hand to his mouth, smoothed his upper lip.

‘I suppose old men, like dead men, should tell no tales.’ His smile
seemed to vanish into a lurking shadow. ‘I must tell you a little
story and then we’ll take up the matters you want to discuss. At
boarding-school--I presume you went to Saint Thomas?’

The judge moved his head.

‘It might have been better if I’d gone there, too. They sent me to
Milford. Well, I wasn’t a great success. I was quick enough in class,
but that didn’t count; for some reason the boys didn’t like me. I
wasn’t good at athletics, I couldn’t play football, and the cold
punishment of the track simply filled me with dread. There was nothing
of that sort that I could do and, naturally, I didn’t become a leader,
and I didn’t want friendship on any other terms. So I put up my image
and looked around for some younger boy to keep it in place.

‘It was little Immanuel Pleasants the last term. I seem to remember him
better than any of the others. He was the son of Agamemnon Pleasants,
the teacher of Latin--a thin, frightened, large-eared man with a
white face and eyes like a Sealyham terrier. Immanuel’s mother was
named Lucilla, and, of course, we always called her Clytemnestra. They
lived in a little house near the main building and were constantly
asking unwilling boys in to tea. Even as youngsters we recognized their
“inferiority complex,” as I believe the psychologists nowadays call
it. Old Aggie--I suppose he was thirty-five--used to call us “young
barbarians” in a timid jocular voice, and give us little half-hearted
pats on the shoulder and look at us with his doubtful evasive eyes. We
thought he wasn’t much of a man, and I daresay he wasn’t; and as for
Clytemnestra we liked her still less; there was something depressing
about her red swollen eyelids and the soft pink of her nose--as if she
were always having a cold. I think even Immanuel, at times, doubted the
worldly value of his parents, and I know some of us used to encourage
him in his attitude of unbelief. It was always easy to encourage
Immanuel on any subject. He was susceptible to every influence about
him; a pathetic, eager little fellow, filled with an unreasoning
desire to please; one of those boys that hang about the older boys
and do things for them and talk about them a little breathlessly. I
thought him quite absurd, with his weasel face and his silly hat and
his big translucent ears. I’ve often wondered’--the judge stared at
the bookcase as if he had forgotten his companion--‘what became of
Immanuel. He was manifestly unfitted for this world. I suppose’--he
looked at Judge Rodenbaugh--‘you knew boys like that at school?’

‘Yes,’ said the judge. He frowned and pulled heavily at his cigar;
behind the dissolving smoke his face seemed to darken with a slow
menacing flush. ‘But I can’t see,’--he paused, then straightened up,
looked at his companion. ‘I can’t see----’

‘There’s no need to,’ interrupted Judge Avery. He lifted his long thin
hand from the table. ‘Don’t try. I’ll be through now, in just a minute.
You must let me finish about Immanuel. I rather like Immanuel! I almost
feel as if I’d invented him for you!’ His smile was hard and bright
with a little curl at the corners. ‘Now what was I going to say? Oh,
yes--I wanted to tell you about our play.

‘Somewhere I’d picked up the story of King Agamemnon and the wily
Ægisthus who killed him and married the faithless Queen Clytemnestra
and, one dull afternoon when Immanuel and Kinsey and little Pollock
were loafing in my room, I conceived the idea of putting the story into
a play. I thought it would be amusing to see Immanuel act the part
of his father, and I explained to him carefully just what sort of a
silly ass Agamemnon was and how Clytemnestra fooled him. I remember I
took particular pleasure in rolling out the word “Agamemnon”; little
Kinsey and Pollock were tremendously pleased and Immanuel stood
there with that foolish, half-frightened, expectant look he always
had when we made fun of his father. But, when it came to acting the
part, he rebelled and, of course, that made me angry and all the more
persistent. I told him he’d have to do it or he couldn’t go about with
me any longer, but even that threat didn’t seem to make any difference;
he only stood there shaking his head, his queer little weasel face very
sharp and pinched, his eyes flickering with a dumb-animal refusal. I
remember it made me quite angry. I felt in some way as if Immanuel were
threatening my prestige, depriving me of a satisfaction to which I was
entitled. And so, to punish him, I began to imitate his father myself.
Little Pollock and Kinsey went into screams on the bed and I rather
expected Immanuel to laugh before I was through: laughing had always
been his final mode of defense. But he didn’t: he only stood there
looking down, his stubby fingers twisting at the absurd pearl buttons
his mother had sewed on his coat. So I went on, getting more and more
savage as I went, it seemed as if his very speechlessness, the fumbling
inarticulate motion of his hands, filled me with rage. I must have gone
on for five minutes or so, when suddenly he hunched up his shoulders
and lifted his arm to his face, and then ran to the door with a queer
little squeak like a bat that’s been hit with a towel. I heard some one
calling after him in the hall and the next minute Danforth came to the
door.

‘“What’s the matter with Pleasants?” he said.

‘I felt startled and rather uncomfortable at Danforth’s sudden
appearance: he was captain of the baseball team, and one of the leaders
of the school. He’d never paid much attention to me. Well, I put my
hands in my pockets and walked over toward him. “Nothing, Danforth,” I
said. “We were horsing Pleasants a little, that’s all. He can’t take a
joke.” I shook my head in a superior manner. “He needs hardening up, I
should say.”

‘“You think so!” Danforth looked at me with perfectly frank disgust.
“I should say you needed it a bit yourself! Lying around all afternoon
with a lot of kids when you ought to be out in the field! Why don’t you
take some one your size?” He waited a minute and then walked away. “You
let Pleasants alone,” he said when he reached the door. “It’s filthy
the way you devil the younger boys. When I get through practice this
afternoon I’ll put on the gloves with you, if you still feel you have
to harden some one up!” He gave me an ugly smile and then disappeared
down the hall.

‘Well, I felt pretty sick. I remember that very clearly, but,
unfortunately, what I don’t remember is that it did me any permanent
good. It was not until long after I was grown that I learned my lesson;
and then, strangely enough, it took old Melchior Van Zandt and a little
lawyer like Kardos to teach me. I don’t suppose you remember Melchior
Van Zandt. He was the leader of the bar in my time; and the kind of man
we’re not likely to see again.’ The judge shook his head. ‘The day of
outstanding personalities has gone, I’m afraid. A high level reduces
the lofty peaks--I believe that’s the explanation given. You can take
it or not, as you like. To me, at times, the plateau doesn’t seem so
high. Of course, that may be only age: the old are apt to see the great
men of their youth through the eyes of their youth--and they loom very
large. However,’--he shrugged his shoulders--‘I must tell you about
Melchior Van Zandt and the lawyer like Kardos.’ He leaned forward a
little, a cold stealthy watchfulness in his eyes. ‘I think I’d been on
the bench just about as long as you have when it happened.’

Judge Rodenbaugh lowered his head, stared at the carpet with an angry
frown. Then he rose, thrust his hands into his pockets, his face turned
away, his chin sunk in a heavy fold between the square points of his
collar. ‘I don’t propose, Judge,’ he began. His grating voice had an
ugly snarl that sounded like the snapping of empty jaws. ‘I don’t
propose to listen to this kind of thing any longer!’ He shut his mouth
and the muscles above his jaws trembled slightly. ‘It’s insulting and
I’m not going to stand it! You have no business’--he stared at the
judge with eyes that seemed curiously futile and stricken--‘you have no
business----’

‘Oh, yes, I have!’ said Judge Avery. ‘Sit down, please.’ He paused.
‘Sit down, I said!’ His voice leaped like a sharp blue flame through
the room. ‘When the vessels of the law become old crockery, there’s
a certain courtesy due them, and that I intend to have from you.’ He
stretched out his hand. ‘Take your seat, please, and listen until I’ve
finished.’

For an instant Judge Rodenbaugh’s stare met his; then it wavered,
seemed to turn sullenly inward. ‘You presume on your age,’ he said, in
a husky voice. He sat down awkwardly. ‘Also, I think you’re presuming
on my intelligence. If you have any more to say, will you kindly be
brief? I don’t care to spend the afternoon listening to stories of
childhood.’

‘_My_ childhood,’ corrected the judge. ‘I wouldn’t presume to intrude
on yours.’ He looked pleasantly across the table. ‘I only presume on
my age, as you said--that, and a certain feeling for what I believe
is called the art of narration. Quite a remarkable art; I admit I
practise it very badly. But that doesn’t matter so long as I hold your
attention. And what old Melchior Van Zandt said to me is worthy of your
attention.

‘I’d been on the bench just about a month when it happened. I was older
than you are, and I’d tried quite a number of cases. But, nevertheless,
I was developing that splendid sense of power you spoke of so feelingly
just a moment ago. There was a little lawyer who came into my court
in those days--he’s dead now--who was rather like Kardos, and he
irritated me the way Kardos irritates you. I remember one morning when
I had a full list, he came bustling into the courtroom with a great
cloud of witnesses behind him and that air of his, of terrible absurd
importance, which, in view of his hopeless incompetence, always annoyed
me intensely. Well, his case was reached that afternoon and when I
called it, he came fussing up to the bar with his greasy frock-coat
buttoned about him and began to splutter at me, the way he always
did. He had a high squeaky voice, and his words seemed to come out
in bunches, as if he blew them out from the back of his mouth. “Mr.
Stover,” I said,--the very sight of him made me angry,--“as far as I
can gather from what you say, you want to butcher another case for us
this afternoon.” Then I looked around and waited for the laugh.

‘Of course it came. It always does when the judge makes a joke. I
grinned down at Stover and he wrinkled his forehead, then gave me a
sallow little smile. “As long as your Honor’s made a shambles out of
the court, I suppose I might as well begin,” he said.’ The judge shook
his head. ‘Pretty good, wasn’t it?’ he laughed. ‘He didn’t leave me
much to say! After Court old Melchior came stumping into my chambers
swinging his big green bag at his side like a Hercules-club. “Avery!”
he grunted. “You deserved what you got this afternoon.” He put his
bag down on the table. “I didn’t think little Stover had it in him.
Remember!” He shook his head at me--he had hair like the mane of an old
gray lion. “The bench is the coward’s castle, my boy. You’re safe, and
the other man isn’t.” Then he picked up his bag and stumped out.’

The judge sighed, smoothed his hair thoughtfully, passed his hand over
his cheek. ‘It all seems so very long ago,’ he said. ‘I’m afraid in
recalling the facts I may have been just a little vague. I only hope
that I haven’t bored you.’ He paused, then settled back in his chair,
touched the tips of his fingers together. ‘And, now, what did you want
to discuss with me?’

‘Nothing,’ Judge Rodenbaugh answered. He rose with a hesitant
awkwardness, his face turned away. ‘I’ve heard that story about the
shambles before. Unfortunately for the truth of your autobiography
it’s never been connected with you.’

‘Indeed?’ said Judge Avery brightly. ‘I must have made it my own then.
It’s not a bad story, though, is it?’

‘No,’ said the judge. He walked to the doorway. ‘Walrath!’ he called.
‘Ask Mr. Kardos to step over, will you?’ He turned sharply about. ‘I’ve
listened to you; now I’ll ask you to wait until Kardos comes and then
listen to me!’

‘Certainly,’ said Judge Avery.


                                  III

‘Mr. Mercer’s here,’ said Walrath. ‘Mr. Kardos is on his way over. Do
you want Mr. Mercer to come in?’

‘No, I’ll talk to him in the courtroom.’ The judge rose from his chair
and plunged through the doorway, the curtains dropping with a swift
flap behind him. His voice reached the chamber the next moment, subdued
to a low murmur from beyond the bench.

Judge Avery put down the Report, smiled quietly, and smoothed his upper
lip. On the whole, he had done a good job. Rodenbaugh had wriggled,
to be sure, but he had held the knife firm, cut to the proper depth.
Surprising how his imagination had gone on; he never remembered letting
it wander so far before unaccompanied by facts. Reading the _Electra_
last night must have been responsible for Agamemnon and Clytemnestra.
He laughed, tapped the end of his tortoise-shell spectacles on the
table, then drew a deep breath, his fingers slowly turning his
thin gold watchchain. After all, had his story done Rodenbaugh any
good? Human nature was a strangely resilient substance, inevitably
coming back to the same shape, no matter how hard you squeezed it.
And what business had he--or any one else--to squeeze it? That was
what these damned reformers were always doing; blowing their moral
ideas under every one’s skin like so many flies! He walked to the
window, gazed down at the automobiles moving through the dust-gold
street like platoons of black glittering beetles. Maybe he had been
a little magisterial in his attitude toward Rodenbaugh, exercised
the prerogative of age in a high-handed manner. Still--he shook his
head--the boy deserved it!

The murmuring in the courtroom ceased and Rodenbaugh’s step sounded on
the marble. As the curtains swung to behind him, Walrath appeared. ‘Mr.
Kardos is here, Judge,’ he said.

‘Send him in.’ Rodenbaugh turned away, thrust his hands in his pockets,
and sat down facing the table. He did not look up; in the silence that
followed, the situation seemed to Judge Avery just a little absurd.
Then some one paused at the doorway, moved the curtains timidly to one
side. ‘Come in!’ said Judge Rodenbaugh, a note of exasperation in his
voice.

Kardos seemed to stumble into the room. As he bowed, it occurred to
the judge in a sudden whimsical flash that his round staring eyes were
exactly like the black buttons on his yellow shoes. He suppressed
a smile, and inclined his head. ‘Sit down,’ said Judge Rodenbaugh,
nodding at the chair in front of the table.

Kardos seated himself, then reached over, placed his green hat on the
table. It looked curiously jaunty on the dark polished surface, arching
above the reflection at its side with an air of draggled impudence:
the judge wondered whether Rodenbaugh appreciated it, and what in the
devil he was going to do with Kardos anyway, now he had him. He leaned
back, gazed at the pair with vague amusement. Where in God’s name did
the young men get those coats! There was something skirted and dashing
about Mr. Kardos’s apparel--for such a little man!

‘Kardos!’ Judge Rodenbaugh looked in his direction with a slow downward
glance. ‘I want to apologize to you.’ He lifted his eyes, stared at
him with smoldering hostility. ‘I had no business to say what I did in
court this afternoon.’

‘Yes, sir!’ Kardos nodded his head with a violent eagerness. ‘I’m sure
I accept your Honor’s apology. I’m sure your Honor’s very generous to
make me any apology at all!’ He spread out his hands and smiled at the
judge, a watchful look on his dark flat face.

‘No?’ Rodenbaugh frowned. ‘I owe it to you. I’ll admit’--his lip
quivered with contempt--‘you gave me provocation. But’--he thrust his
chin down on his collar--‘I owe it to you?’

‘That’s very kind,’ said Kardos glibly. He leaned forward with an air
of confidence. ‘You see, Judge, I was asking the questions all right.
Yes I was.’ His low forehead wrinkled in a thick triangular crease just
above his nose. ‘I think maybe your Honor don’t understand the way I
work.’ He placed a stubby forefinger on his palm. ‘You see, Judge,
I sort of feel around and ease off the witness’s mind until he can
tell me what I want, you know, just letting him loose and giving him
a chance to think, and then new things come up and you get something
maybe you overlooked when you came to court. So I just suggest’--he
lifted a hand--‘an idea, maybe, here and there--something that comes to
me, maybe, on the spot. Of course I know your Honor thinks it takes up
time, but’--he cocked his head to one side--‘I get splendid results!’

‘You do, eh! I wish I saw some of them in my court!’ Judge Rodenbaugh’s
little eyes gleamed balefully.

‘Your Honor hasn’t heard me try many cases,’ Kardos said. His smile was
almost benevolent in its assurance. ‘Where I live I get most of the
business now of that kind.’

‘You do, eh?’ The judge grunted. ‘That doesn’t speak well for your
neighborhood! From the way you talk you sound to me very much like a
fool! Why don’t you prepare your cases instead of trying them by mental
telepathy?’

Kardos laughed. To Judge Avery, watching his face, he didn’t seem at
all disconcerted. ‘Your Honor has a forceful way of putting things,’ he
said. ‘If your Honor will permit me to say so, I don’t think your Honor
quite understands what I mean.’

‘No, and you don’t yourself. How could you when you think round and
round like a mule tied up in a field!’ The judge grinned, shot a glance
at Judge Avery. ‘What you need, Kardos, is direction, straightness of
mental line. I’m afraid your mind’s built on a circular pattern.’

‘Wheels?’ said Kardos.

‘Within wheels,’ Rodenbaugh answered. ‘In my opinion you’re not fit to
appear before any sensible jury. You ought to practise trying cases on
a phonograph in the privacy of your home. You could encumber the record
then all you liked.’ He looked at Judge Avery again.

Kardos caught the glance and a little grin touched the corners of his
lips. He gazed at Judge Rodenbaugh with sharp, motionless eyes. ‘Your
Honor says very smart things,’ he observed, in a tone of impersonal
appreciation. ‘I suppose that’s the reason we all like to try in your
Honor’s court.’

‘What?’

‘I suppose that’s the reason we all like to bring our cases before your
Honor.’

‘You do, eh! Well, I don’t know about that!’ The viciousness faded from
the judge’s voice, and he stretched out his legs and looked tolerantly
at Kardos. ‘My tongue may be just a little bit quick, but you fellows
need it sometimes.’

‘That’s true, Judge!’ Kardos nodded his head. ‘Your Honor always gives
us what we deserve. And besides, Judge,’--the motionless lustre of his
eyes seemed to break into tiny points,--‘we like a little amusement in
the courtroom.’

‘Yes?’ The judge thrust out his lower lip. ‘Well, you furnish it all
right.’

‘And so does your Honor.’

‘I do, eh?’

‘Yes, sir.’ Kardos seemed cautiously to expand, to relax in a posture
of intimate friendliness. He glanced over his shoulder at Judge
Avery, then surveyed Rodenbaugh with an unruffled face. ‘I hear that
everywhere, Judge.’

‘Indeed!’ The judge’s mouth widened, and he smoothed his chin. ‘Well,
I do the best I can for you, Kardos. In your case it’s never hard.’ He
crossed his knees, sank farther back in his chair. ‘You fellows fumble
so with your facts,’ he observed contentedly. ‘And I think you must get
your law from the _Evening Telegram_.’

‘Your Honor feels that way because of your Honor’s superior mind.
That’s another reason we all like to try in your Honor’s court. Your
Honor gets things done.’ Kardos sighed wistfully. ‘Your Honor’s court
is not like the other courts.’

‘No?’

‘No, sir!’ Kardos repeated with emphasis. ‘I remember I said, when your
Honor was appointed, there’s a young man, if your Honor will forgive
the word, that’s going to stir things up on the bench. It’s the kind of
thing we need, and I said so, Judge, right down in my ward in public,
and in private conversations. He’s a young man that knows the law, and
knows how to handle a courtroom, I said. He’s got a heavy hand and a
sharp tongue, and that’s what a judge needs more than anything else.’

‘You think so, do you?’ Rodenbaugh lifted his chin, arched his eyebrows
amiably, and his lower lip relaxed.

For an instant Judge Avery surveyed him, then he turned away, gazed out
at the pigeons, softly rustling their wings in the square of orange
light. He was very tired; if they didn’t stop in a minute he was going
to get up and go home.

‘Yes, I do, Judge Rodenbaugh! That’s what I think.’ Kardos’s chair
creaked and Judge Avery could hear the scratch of his sleeve on the
table. ‘And I says to them, Judge,’--he heard Kardos’s voice rise with
a lingering sinuous accent,--‘I says to them, Judge, there’s a man that
ought to go higher!’

‘Indeed!’ The word echoed through the chamber, hopeful, faintly ironic,
foolish.

‘Yes, I did, Judge Rodenbaugh! That’s exactly what I said. There’s a
man that ought to go higher. He’s only just begun his career, Judge
Rodenbaugh has. And I’m telling you, Judge,’--Kardos hitched his chair
closer,--‘what I says goes, in my ward, with a lot of my own people!’

‘Hm!’ A look of doubt crossed Judge Rodenbaugh’s face, and his fingers
moved restlessly on the table.

‘And I’m telling you, Judge,’--Kardos paused, then rose with an air of
authority,--‘I don’t think you’ve realized what I could do for you.
No, you haven’t.’ He shook his head with an impudent cunning. ‘I speak
for my own people in my ward. I can do a lot, I can. And Judge,’--his
voice seemed to creep through the silence,--‘I could use an appointment
now and then, when they come your way.’

For an instant no one spoke. Judge Avery could feel the silence about
him expand, grow tense with unuttered meaning. He waited, a little
smile on his lips. Then Rodenbaugh sprang from his chair, his fist
beating against the table. ‘Get out!’ he fairly bellowed. He stretched
out his arm. ‘Get out, I say!’

Kardos turned, seemed to leap through the doorway.

‘My God!’ The judge stumbled against a chair, picked it up with both of
his hands. ‘Avery! Did you ever hear anything like that in your life?’
‘Never before today,’ said Judge Avery.


FOOTNOTES:

     [10] Copyright, 1924, by The Atlantic Monthly Company.
          Copyright, 1926, by Walter Gilkyson.




                         HOW DOES IT FEEL TO BE
                                FREE?[11]

                            By MANUEL KOMROFF

                      (From _The Atlantic Monthly_)

After the usual breakfast he was taken downstairs, given a bath, a
fresh suit of civil clothes, and brought to the office. Here he was
presented with several documents and a five-dollar bill.

The warden got up from his desk, ‘I see by your papers, Joe, that you
have been here twelve years. Well, you have been a good prisoner;
good-bye and good luck to you.’ They shook hands.

He was led through the yard to the gate. The moment had come. He
stepped through. Again they shook hands before the gate was closed
behind him and locked--locking him free.

He carried his hat in his hand as he started along the road and down
the hill. He was confronted by a fresh, bracing breeze and a most
bewildering sense of vastness--a vastness bathed in light. His eyes
blinked, and his steps were short and hesitating.

On top of the high gray wall a guard, rifle in hand, walked in the same
direction. ‘Good-bye, Joe,’ he shouted. ‘How does it feel to be free?’

       *       *       *       *       *

How does it feel to be free? To be confined, bottled-up, held in check,
restricted, controlled--and suddenly turned loose upon a dizzy world!

A gray mist has surrounded it all. Imagine yourself completely
enveloped as though your life had been becalmed by a fog. A fog through
which it is difficult to see. Only overhead can you see a tiny
circular opening through which the bright sky shines like a sparkling
jewel. Soon you discover that the mist has hardened about you. The fog
has encased you completely, except for that far-away opening overhead.
You examine the walls and find that they are composed of long narrow
ribbons of gray celluloid hung from what appears to be a small hoop in
the sky. No--you have more space than that. Your walls are round, but
you have ten feet from side to side. And every side is alike. From the
sky to the ground your life is encased in a celluloid tube made of cold
gray ribbons, and you are unable to see what is outside of yourself.

But when you examine the walls closer you find that the strips are made
entirely of little squares, and each square has a queer design. You had
not noticed them at first, but everywhere you look and as far up as you
can see you find the little squares. Then on examining them closer you
discover that each square is a separate little picture in which you
yourself appear! Each square a frozen moment of your life. Each picture
a tiny recollection dimmed and made gray by that rapid piling-up--that
multiplication called the Past.

Frozen memories in miniature. As though the ribbons were discarded
cinematographic records--records of your discarded past--complete and
shameless.

There are different scenes of long ago; some are comforting and some
are horrid. At some you tarry, but others you are happy not to see at
all. Those high up are hard to see, though some seem clear and fairly
distinct. You make vague guesses at what they are, and some you are
sure you recognize. It is like a game. The forgotten past hangs over
you as high as you can see, and a circle of light comes through from
the sky.

The whole thing is quite natural, and at first you see nothing very
strange about the affair; a little odd, perhaps, or maybe like a
dream; but it does not seem very startling until suddenly you discover
that the sequence is wrong. Why should it be wrong? Why do the scenes
not follow one another as they happened? Why is this thing all
helter-skelter?

You try to select and arrange, but the task is enormous. Here and there
and everywhere are pictures that you have not included and some that
you would like to--if you could only cut them away with a penknife.
Yes, cut little toy-windows so you could see clearly outside--the
outside world--the real world that at present you can see only by
looking through your own experiences, and see dimmed by the shadows of
past images. But you have no knife that could sever. And it would not
help.

Oh, how tired you are of it all! How dreary, how oppressing, how
monotonous! Days are gray and nights are gray. You are tired of
yourself--the constant repetition of yourself. If you could only run
away. But the cylinder is light, airy, and nimble. It rotates as you
run. You are imprisoned in this strange thing called life--life dreary
and gray--surrounded by cameos and smudges of black.

The sequence is wrong. You try to escape. The walls are pliable, and
with pressure could yield. You wedge a hand through, and another; you
work a foot through, making still another opening, but at no time can
you manage to get your body through. Then, too, where would you go? You
give it up; and in time you are resigned and engage in that restful
play of thinking back and of looking out at the real world through the
lightly tinted squares.

You see the world--the real world that is made of kisses and snow. Of
fire, milk, dreams, straw, water, tobacco, and children. You watch the
real world that is built solidly of things that do not last--built
firmly of vital sparks that cannot endure.

Every now and then you discover a new square or two added to your
walls. Something that happened only yesterday; but what was in its
place before you are unable to tell, try hard as you may.

In a year many different pictures have presented themselves. In three
years a fair number are new; in six, three-quarters are added pictures;
but in twelve hardly any of the old remain and these seem greatly
dimmed. A comforting dimness. Time makes all things restful.

In the outside world you can see children playing. They are playing
with matches, lighting old brooms and paper, and running across the
fields with trailing flames and shooting sparks. They had never done
this before.

You watch closely. They are putting fire to the whole business!
Suddenly a flash, a puff of smoke, a blaze of light, and there you
stand on a hill confronted by real colors and a free, bracing breeze.
In the distance the frightened children are running and you hear one
whimper, ‘I did not know it could burn.’

Everything is sky and land. You are surrounded by a vastness bathed in
light.

You blink at the glamour of it all, as with hesitating steps you wander
down the road to--The station is a mile away. Here a train comes from
somewhere and can take you to--exactly where you do not know, but it
can take you there. You must go!

That is how it feels to be free.

       *       *       *       *       *

At the station Joe changed his five-dollar bill to buy a ticket and a
plug of chewing-tobacco. The train carried him home--to the city of his
former life.

Here the streets are paved with stone. Square next to square, with
hardly a crack between. Cruelly mortised by man for the benefit and
convenience of his fellow men. Long lines cemented together so that mud
and dirt are not tracked about--tracked into the little pigeonholes
called homes.

Joe reached home all right. His wife had been dead a number of years
and his children had all grown up and married. Old memories were quite
dim. He hardly knew them, and they certainly did not recognize him; but
it was all very pleasant.

In the evening they all had supper together--that is, after the babies
had been put to bed in one room. The table was dressed as in a movie,
the room was bright with lights, and everything was merry.

A steaming chicken was brought on and the oldest son stood up, removed
his coat, and rolled up his cuffs before carving. ‘Now, dad, I’m going
to cut for you this-here leg, first and second joint,’ and, pointing
the knife at him, ‘also a good big chunk of the white meat. Mollie,
dish the gravy.’

They spoke about the comic strips in the illustrated newspapers, about
recent screen-dramas, about dance records for the phonograph, about
everything that amused them. The checkered past was carefully avoided.
They were all quite intelligent and they said they understood.

Joe had a nice home. He could stay about the house and just ‘rest up.’
The children had seen all kinds of reunions in the movies, and would do
their best to make him happy. They gave him a room to himself, a warm
pair of carpet slippers, a pipe with a yellow stem and fancy gold band,
a pair of cotton-flannel pajamas, razor blades, and everything that a
male mortal needs for comfort.

But Joe spent a most uncomfortable night. The large meal did not agree
with him and kept him awake. The rushing light of morn came blaring
into the room. He looked about. Small photographs hung on the walls.
There were scenes of Niagara Falls, Yellowstone Park, and of big trees
in California. Little gray squares dotted the walls--views that Joe had
never experienced.

It was all very natural that Joe should be a bit uncomfortable at
first. The children said that they understood, and that it would take a
little while for him to feel really at home.

Joe proceeded to make himself comfortable. He tried the carpet
slippers, but found them loose, soft, and uncomfortable. The pipe was a
nice thing, too, though he did not really enjoy smoking. The pictures
he removed from the walls, and then he drove nails on which to hang his
coat and pajamas. He greatly distrusted the closet, where it was dark
and where mice perhaps were free to wander.

He amused himself by collecting old bits of wire that he found on old
picture-frames and in the basement of the apartment house. It gave him
great pleasure to send the wire down the neck of a bottle and watch the
odd twists and coils it would make in the bottle--as though it were
life itself going through its many painful convulsions. He kept the
bottle on the open fire-escape in front of his window.

Just as soon as Joe found that the friendliness of his children was
quite genuine he proceeded to make himself really comfortable. He
brought up some thin boards to slip under the mattress of the cot.
This made it much firmer. He nailed up the closet door and painted the
rods of the fire-escape black, under the pretext that its former color
showed the dirt too much. At night he had several times been bothered
by a notion that there might be rats about and that his cot was too
low. This he soon fixed by bringing up some old wood from the basement
and raising the cot so that it resembled an upper berth in a cabin. He
was careful to eat very little meat and kept closely to a diet of soup
and hot cereal. Day by day he was feeling more comfortable. Now only
one thing more needed his attention. The room was too large! Too large
for one person. This he remedied by rigging a pole across the room
and hanging down a heavy curtain dividing the space in half. It also
divided the window. Now all seemed cozy.

By this time the bottle on the window was packed tight with bits of
wire. He carried it down to the basement and broke it over an ash can.
The heavy wad of iron wire was freed from its container. It was nothing
but a rusty solid mass, the same shape as the bottle that now was
scattered in fragments.

He turned it in his hand and examined it closely. Was it an experiment
that had failed? Did he imagine that the tough springy wires would jump
back to their former state once freed? No. It was a rusty solid mass,
brown as a cough mixture and shaped like a bottle. If he had a label he
could paste it on and mark it--‘Free!’

He brought it back to his room and carefully put it in its place on the
window. Then he climbed up on his cot.

Outside it rains, and outside it snows, and then the sun sings forth
and dries up the long lines of pavements made of stone cunningly
mortised. From his cot he can see a tiny bit of sky--a small bright
opening far away. Now and then a figure walks across a neighboring
roof and reminds him of the man on the high wall who held a rifle in
his hand and shouted, ‘How does it feel to be free?’ From his cot he
can see glimpses of the outside world--the real world that is made
of kisses and snow. But between him and the great outside is the
window-ledge upon which stands that rusty, packed-together wad of wire,
shaped like a bottle.


FOOTNOTES:

     [11] Copyright, 1925, by The Atlantic Monthly Company.
          Copyright, 1925, by Boni and Liveright, Inc.
          From “The Grace of Lambs,” published by Boni and Liveright,
            Inc.




                               HAIRCUT[12]

                             By RING LARDNER

                            (From _Liberty_)


I got another barber that comes over from Carterville and helps me out
Saturdays, but the rest of the time I can get along all right alone.
You can see for yourself that this ain’t no New York City and besides
that, the most of the boys works all day and don’t have no leisure to
drop in here and get themselves prettied up.

You’re a newcomer, ain’t you? I thought I hadn’t seen you round before.
I hope you like it good enough to stay. As I say, we ain’t no New York
City or Chicago, but we have pretty good times. Not as good, though,
since Jim Kendall got killed. When he was alive, him and Hod Meyers
used to keep this town in an uproar. I bet they was more laughin’ done
here than any town its size in America.

Jim was comical, and Hod was pretty near a match for him. Since Jim’s
gone, Hod tries to hold his end up just the same as ever, but it’s
tough goin’ when you ain’t got nobody to kind of work with.

They used to be plenty fun in here Saturdays. This place is jam-packed
Saturdays, from four o’clock on. Jim and Hod would show up right after
their supper round six o’clock. Jim would set himself down in that big
chair, nearest the blue spittoon. Whoever had been settin’ in that
chair, why they’d get up when Jim come in and give it to him.

You’d of thought it was a reserved seat like they have sometimes in a
theayter. Hod would generally always stand or walk up and down or some
Saturdays, of course, he’d be settin’ in this chair part of the time,
gettin’ a haircut.

Well, Jim would set there a w’ile without openin’ his mouth only to
spit, and then finally he’d say to me, “Whitey,”--my right name, that
is, my right first name, is Dick, but everybody round here calls me
Whitey--Jim would say, “Whitey, your nose looks like a rosebud tonight.
You must of been drinkin’ some of your aw de cologne.”

So I’d say, “No, Jim, but you look like you’d been drinkin’ somethin’
of that kind or somethin’ worse.”

Jim would have to laugh at that, but then he’d speak up and say, “No,
I ain’t had nothin’ to drink, but that ain’t sayin’ I wouldn’t like
somethin’. I wouldn’t even mind if it was wood alcohol.”

Then Hod Meyers would say, “Neither would your wife.” That would set
everybody to laughin’ because Jim and his wife wasn’t on very good
terms. She’d of divorced him only they wasn’t no chance to get alimony
and she didn’t have no way to take care of herself and the kids. She
couldn’t never understand Jim. He _was_ kind of rough, but a good fella
at heart.

Him and Hod had all kinds of sport with Milt Sheppard. I don’t suppose
you’ve seen Milt. Well, he got an Adam’s apple that looks more like a
mushmelon. So I’d be shavin’ Milt and when I’d start to shave down here
on his neck, Hod would holler, “Hey, Whitey, wait a minute! Before you
cut into it, let’s make up a pool and see who can guess closest to the
number of seeds.”

And Jim would say, “If Milt hadn’t of been so hoggish, he’d of ordered
a half a cantaloupe instead of a whole one and it might not of stuck in
his throat.”

All the boys would roar at this and Milt himself would force a smile,
though the joke was on him. Jim certainly was a card!

There’s his shavin’ mug, settin’ on the shelf, right next to Charley
Vail’s. “Charles M. Vail.” That’s the druggist. He comes in regular for
his shave, three times a week. And Jim’s is the cup next to Charley’s.
“James H. Kendall.” Jim won’t need no shavin’ mug no more, but I’ll
leave it there just the same for old time’s sake. Jim certainly was a
character!

Years ago, Jim used to travel for a canned goods concern over in
Carterville. They sold canned goods. Jim had the whole northern half of
the State and was on the road five days out of every week. He’d drop in
here Saturdays and tell his experiences for that week. It was rich.

I guess he paid more attention to playin’ jokes than makin’ sales.
Finally the concern let him out and he come right home here and told
everybody he’d been fired instead of sayin’ he’d resigned like most
fellas would of.

It was a Saturday and the shop was full and Jim got up out of that
chair and says, “Gentlemen, I got an important announcement to make. I
been fired from my job.”

Well, they asked him if he was in earnest and he said he was and nobody
could think of nothin’ to say till Jim finally broke the ice himself.
He says, “I been sellin’ canned goods and now I’m canned goods myself.”

You see, the concern he’d been workin’ for was a factory that made
canned goods. Over in Carterville. And now Jim said he was canned
himself. He was certainly a card!

Jim had a great trick that he used to play w’ile he was travelin’. For
instance, he’d be ridin’ on a train and they’d come to some little town
like, well, like, well, like, we’ll say, like Benton. Jim would look
out the train window and read the signs on the stores.

For instance, they’d be a sign, “Henry Smith, Dry Goods.” Well, Jim
would write down the name and the name of the town and when he got to
wherever he was goin’ he’d mail back a postal card to Henry Smith at
Benton and not sign no name to it, but he’d write on the card, well,
somethin’ like “Ask your wife about that book agent that spent the
afternoon last week,” or “Ask your Missus who kept her from gettin’
lonesome the last time you was in Carterville.” And he’d sign the card,
“A Friend.”

Of course, he never knew what really come of none of these jokes, but
he could picture what _probably_ happened and that was enough.

Jim didn’t work very steady after he lost his position with the
Carterville people. What he did earn, doin’ odd jobs round town, why he
spent pretty near all of it on gin, and his family might of starved if
the stores hadn’t of carried them along. Jim’s wife tried her hand at
dressmakin’, but they ain’t nobody goin’ to get rich makin’ dresses in
this town.

As I say, she’d of divorced Jim, only she seen that she couldn’t
support herself and the kids and she was always hopin’ that some day
Jim would cut out his habits and give her more than two or three
dollars a week.

They was a time when she would go to whoever he was workin’ for and ask
them to give her his wages, but after she done this once or twice, he
beat her to it by borrowin’ most of his pay in advance. He told it all
round town, how he had outfoxed his Missus. He certainly was a caution!

But he wasn’t satisfied with just outwittin’ her. He was sore the way
she had acted, tryin’ to grab off his pay. And he made up his mind he’d
get even. Well, he waited till Evans’s Circus was advertised to come to
town. Then he told his wife and two kiddies that he was goin’ to take
them to the circus. The day of the circus, he told them he would get
the tickets and meet them outside the entrance to the tent.

Well, he didn’t have no intentions of bein’ there or buyin’ tickets or
nothin’. He got full of gin and laid round Wright’s poolroom all day.
His wife and the kids waited and waited and of course he didn’t show
up. His wife didn’t have a dime with her, or nowhere else, I guess. So
she finally had to tell the kids it was all off and they cried like
they wasn’t never goin’ to stop.

Well, it seems, w’ile they was cryin’, Doc Stair come along and he
asked what was the matter, but Mrs. Kendall was stubborn and wouldn’t
tell him, but the kids told him and he insisted on takin’ them and
their mother in the show. Jim found this out afterwards and it was one
reason why he had it in for Doc Stair.

Doc Stair come here about a year and a half ago. He’s a mighty handsome
young fella and his clothes always look like he has them made to order.
He goes to Detroit two or three times a year and w’ile he’s there he
must have a tailor take his measure and then make him a suit to order.
They cost pretty near twice as much, but they fit a whole lot better
than if you just bought them in a store.

For a w’ile everybody was wonderin’ why a young doctor like Doc Stair
should come to a town like this where we already got old Doc Gamble and
Doc Foote that’s both been here for years and all the practice in town
was always divided between the two of them.

Then they was a story got round that Doc Stair’s gal had throwed him
over, a gal up in the Northern Peninsula somewhere, and the reason he
come here was to hide himself away and forget it. He said himself that
he thought they wasn’t nothin’ like general practice in a place like
ours to fit a man to be a good all round doctor. And that’s why he’d
came.

Anyways, it wasn’t long before he was makin’ enough to live on, though
they tell me that he never dunned nobody for what they owed him, and
the folks here certainly has got the owin’ habit, even in my business.
If I had all that was comin’ to me for just shaves alone, I could go
to Carterville and put up at the Mercer for a week and see a different
picture every night. For instance, they’s old George Purdy--but I guess
I shouldn’t ought to be gossipin’.

Well, last year, our coroner died, died of the flu. Ken Beatty, that
was his name. He was the coroner. So they had to choose another man to
be coroner in his place and they picked Doc Stair. He laughed at first
and said he didn’t want it, but they made him take it. It ain’t no job
that anybody would fight for and what a man makes out of it in a year
would just about buy seeds for their garden. Doc’s the kind, though,
that can’t say no to nothin’ if you keep at him long enough.

But I was goin’ to tell you about a poor boy we got here in town--Paul
Dickson. He fell out of a tree when he was about ten years old. Lit on
his head and it done somethin’ to him and he ain’t never been right.
No harm in him, but just silly. Jim Kendall used to call him cuckoo;
that’s a name Jim had for anybody that was off their head, only he
called people’s head their bean. That was another of his gags, callin’
head bean and callin’ crazy people cuckoo. Only poor Paul ain’t crazy,
but just silly.

You can imagine that Jim used to have all kinds of fun with Paul. He’d
send him to the White Front Garage for a left-handed monkey wrench. Of
course they ain’t no such thing as a left-handed monkey wrench.

And once we had a kind of a fair here and they was a baseball game
between the fats and the leans and before the game started Jim called
Paul over and sent him way down to Schrader’s hardware store to get a
key for the pitcher’s box.

They wasn’t nothin’ in the way of gags that Jim couldn’t think up, when
he put his mind to it.

Poor Paul was always kind of suspicious of people, maybe on account
of how Jim had kept foolin’ him. Paul wouldn’t have much to do with
anybody only his own mother and Doc Stair and a girl here in town named
Julie Gregg. That is, she ain’t a girl no more, but pretty near thirty
or over.

When Doc first come to town, Paul seemed to feel like here was a real
friend and he hung round Doc’s office most of the w’ile; the only time
he wasn’t there was when he’d go home to eat or sleep or when he seen
Julie Gregg doin’ her shoppin’.

When he looked out Doc’s window and seen her, he’d run downstairs and
join her and tag along with her to the different stores. The poor boy
was crazy about Julie and she always treated him mighty nice and made
him feel like he was welcome, though of course it wasn’t nothin’ but
pity on her side.

Doc done all he could to improve Paul’s mind and he told me once that
he really thought the boy was getting better, that they was times when
he was as bright and sensible as anybody else.

But I was goin’ to tell you about Julie Gregg. Old man Gregg was in the
lumber business, but got to drinkin’ and lose the most of his money and
when he died, he didn’t leave nothin’ but the house and just enough
insurance for the girl to skimp along on.

Her mother was a kind of a half invalid and didn’t hardly ever leave
the house. Julie wanted to sell the place and move somewheres else
after the old man died, but the mother said she was born here and
would die here. It was tough on Julie as the young people round this
town--well, she’s too good for them.

She’s been away to school and Chicago and New York and different places
and they ain’t no subject she can’t talk on, where you take the rest of
the young folks here and you mention anything to them outside of Gloria
Swanson or Tommy Meighan and they think you’re delirious. Did you see
Gloria in Wages of Virtue? You missed somethin’!

Well, Doc Stair hadn’t been here more than a week when he come in one
day to get shaved and I recognized who he was, as he had been pointed
out to me, so I told him about my old lady. She’s been ailin’ for a
couple years and either Doc Gamble or Doc Foote, neither one, seemed to
be helpin’ her. So he said he would come out and see her, but if she
was able to get out herself, it would be better to bring her to his
office where he could make a completer examination.

So I took her to his office and w’ile I was waitin’ for her in the
reception room, in come Julie Gregg. When somebody comes in Doc Stair’s
office, they’s a bell that rings in his inside office so as he can tell
they’s somebody to see him.

So he left my old lady inside and come out to the front office and
that’s the first time him and Julie met and I guess it was what they
call love at first sight. But it wasn’t fifty-fifty. This young fella
was the slickest lookin’ fella she’d ever seen in this town and she
went wild over him. To him she was just a young lady that wanted to see
the doctor.

She’d came on about the same business I had. Her mother had been
doctorin’ for years with Doc Gamble and Doc Foote and without no
results. So she’d heard they was a new doc in town and decided to give
him a try. He promised to call and see her mother that same day.

I said a minute ago that it was love at first sight on her part. I’m
not only judgin’ by how she acted afterwards but how she looked at him
that first day in his office. I ain’t no mind reader, but it was wrote
all over her face that she was gone.

Now Jim Kendall, besides bein’ a jokesmith and a pretty good drinker,
well, Jim was quite a lady-killer. I guess he run pretty wild durin’
the time he was on the road for them Carterville people, and besides
that, he’d had a couple little affairs of the heart right here in town.
As I say, his wife could have divorced him, only she couldn’t.

But Jim was like the majority of men, and women, too, I guess. He
wanted what he couldn’t get. He wanted Julie Gregg and worked his head
off tryin’ to land her. Only he’d of said bean instead of head.

Well, Jim’s habits and his jokes didn’t appeal to Julie and of course
he was a married man, so he didn’t have no more chance than, well, than
a rabbit. That’s an expression of Jim’s himself. When somebody didn’t
have no chance to get elected or somethin’, Jim would always say they
didn’t have no more chance than a rabbit.

He didn’t make no bones about how he felt. Right in here, more than
once, in front of the whole crowd, he said he was stuck on Julie and
anybody that could get her for him was welcome to his house and his
wife and kids included. But she wouldn’t have nothin’ to do with him;
wouldn’t even speak to him on the street. He finally seen he wasn’t
gettin’ nowheres with his usual line so he decided to try the rough
stuff. He went right up to her house one evenin’ and when she opened
the door he forced his way in and grabbed her. But she broke loose and
before he could stop her, she run in the next room and locked the door
and phoned to Joe Barnes. Joe’s the marshal. Jim could hear who she was
phonin’ to and he beat it before Joe got there.

Joe was an old friend of Julie’s pa. Joe went to Jim the next day and
told him what would happen if he ever done it again.

I don’t know how the news of this little affair leaked out. Chances is
that Joe Barnes told his wife and she told somebody else’s wife and
they told their husband. Anyways, it did leak out and Hod Meyers had
the nerve to kid Jim about it, right here in this shop. Jim didn’t deny
nothin’ and kind of laughed it off and said for us all to wait; that
lots of people had tried to make a monkey out of him, but he always
got even.

Meanw’ile everybody in town was wise to Julie’s bein’ wild mad over the
Doc. I don’t suppose she had any idear how her face changed when him
and her was together; of course she couldn’t of, or she’d of kept away
from him. And she didn’t know that we was all noticin’ how many times
she made excuses to go up to his office or pass it on the other side
of the street and look up in his window to see if he was there. I felt
sorry for her and so did most other people.

Hod Meyers kept rubbin’ it into Jim about how the Doc had cut him out.
Jim didn’t pay no attention to the kiddin’ and you could see he was
plannin’ one of his jokes.

One trick Jim had was the knack of changin’ his voice. He could make
you think he was a girl talkin’ and he could mimic any man’s voice. To
show you how good he was along this line, I’ll tell you the joke he
played on me once.

You know, in most towns of any size, when a man is dead and needs a
shave, why the barber that shaves him soaks him five dollars for the
job; that is, he don’t soak _him_, but whoever ordered the shave. I
just charge three dollars because personally I don’t mind much shavin’
a dead person. They lay a whole lot stiller than live customers. The
only thing is that you don’t feel like talkin’ to them and you get kind
of lonesome.

Well, about the coldest day we ever had here, two years ago last
winter, the phone rung at the house w’ile I was home to dinner and I
answered the phone and it was a woman’s voice and she said she was Mrs.
John Scott and her husband was dead and would I come out and shave him.

Old John had always been a good customer of mine. But they live seven
miles out in the country, on the Streeter road. Still I didn’t see how
I could say no.

So I said I would be there, but would have to come in a jitney and it
might cost three or four dollars besides the price of the shave. So
she, or the voice, it said that was all right, so I got Frank Abbott to
drive me out to the place and when I got there, who should open the
door but old John himself! He wasn’t no more dead than, well than a
rabbit.

It didn’t take no private detective to figure out who had played me
this little joke. Nobody could of thought it up but Jim Kendall. He
certainly was a card!

I tell you this incident just to show you how he could disguise his
voice and make you believe it was somebody else talkin’. I’d of swore
it was Mrs. Scott had called me. Anyways, some woman.

Well, Jim waited till he had Doc Stair’s voice down pat; then he went
after revenge.

He called Julie up on a night when he knew Doc was over in Carterville.
She never questioned but what it was Doc’s voice. Jim said he must
see her that night; he couldn’t wait no longer to tell her somethin’.
She was all excited and told him to come to the house. But he said he
was expectin’ an important long distance call and wouldn’t she please
forget her manners for once and come to his office. He said they
couldn’t nothin’ hurt her and nobody would see her and he just _must_
talk to her a little w’ile. Well, poor Julie fell for it.

Doc always keeps a night light in his office, so it looked to Julie
like they was somebody there.

Meanw’ile Jim Kendall had went to Wright’s poolroom, where they was a
whole gang amusin’ themselves. The most of them had drank plenty of
gin, and they was a rough bunch even when sober. They was always strong
for Jim’s jokes and when he told them to come with him and see some fun
they give up their card games and pool games and followed along.

Doc’s office is on the second floor. Right outside his door they’s a
flight of stairs leadin’ to the floor above. Jim and his gang hid in
the dark behind these stairs.

Well, Julie come up to Doc’s door and rung the bell and they was
nothin’ doin’. She rung it again and she rung it seven or eight times.
Then she tried the door and found it locked. Then Jim made some kind of
a noise and she heard it and waited a minute, and then she says, “Is
that you, Ralph?” Ralph is Doc’s first name.

They was no answer and it must of came to her all of a sudden that
she’d been bunked. She pretty near fell downstairs and the whole gang
after her. They chased her all the way home, hollerin’, “Is that you
Ralph?” and “Oh, Ralphie, dear, is that you?” Jim says he couldn’t
holler it himself, as he was laughin’ too hard.

Poor Julie! She didn’t show up here on Main Street for a long, long
time afterward.

And of course Jim and his gang told everybody in town, everybody but
Doc Stair. They was scared to tell him, and he might of never knowed
only for Paul Dickson. The poor cuckoo, as Jim called him, he was here
in the shop one night when Jim was still gloatin’ yet over what he’d
done to Julie. And Paul took in as much of it as he could understand
and he run to Doc with the story.

It’s a cinch Doc went up in the air and swore he’d make Jim suffer. But
it was a kind of a delicate thing, because if it got out that he had
beat Jim up, Julie was bound to hear of it and then she’d know that Doc
knew and of course knowin’ that he knew would make it worse for her
than ever. He was goin’ to do somethin’, but it took a lot of figurin’.

Well, it was a couple days later when Jim was here in the shop again,
and so was the cuckoo. Jim was goin’ duck-shootin’ the next day and
had came in lookin’ for Hod Meyers to go with him. I happened to know
that Hod had went over to Carterville and wouldn’t be home till the end
of the week. So Jim said he hated to go alone and he guessed he would
call it off. Then poor Paul spoke up and said if Jim would take him he
would go along. Jim thought a w’ile and then he said, well, he guessed
a half-wit was better than nothin’.

I suppose he was plottin’ to get Paul out in the boat and play some
joke on him, like pushin’ him in the water. Anyways, he said Paul could
go. He asked him had he ever shot a duck and Paul said no, he’d never
even had a gun in his hands. So Jim said he could set in the boat and
watch him and if he behaved himself, he might lend him his gun for a
couple of shots. They made a date to meet in the mornin’ and that’s the
last I seen of Jim alive.

Next mornin’, I hadn’t been open more than ten minutes when Doc Stair
come in. He looked kind of nervous. He asked me had I seen Paul
Dickson. I said no, but I knew where he was, out duck-shootin’ with
Jim Kendall. So Doc says that’s what he had heard, and he couldn’t
understand it because Paul had told him he wouldn’t never have no more
to do with Jim as long as he lived.

He said Paul had told him about the joke Jim had played on Julie. He
said Paul had asked him what he thought of the joke and the Doc had
told him that anybody that would do a thing like that ought not to be
let live.

I said it had been a kind of a raw thing, but Jim just couldn’t resist
no kind of a joke, no matter how raw. I said I thought he was all right
at heart, but just bubblin’ over with mischief. Doc turned and walked
out.

At noon he got a phone call from old John Scott. The lake where Jim and
Paul had went shootin’ is on John’s place. Paul had came runnin’ up to
the house a few minutes before and said they’d been an accident. Jim
had shot a few ducks and then give the gun to Paul and told him to try
his luck. Paul hadn’t never handled a gun and he was nervous. He was
shakin’ so hard that he couldn’t control the gun. He let fire and Jim
sunk back in the boat, dead.

Doc Stair, bein’ the coroner, jumped in Frank Abbott’s flivver and
rushed out to Scott’s farm. Paul and old John was down on the shore of
the lake. Paul had rowed the boat to shore, but they’d left the body in
it, waiting for Doc to come.

Doc examined the body and said they might as well fetch it back to
town. They was no use leavin’ it there or callin’ a jury, as it was a
plain case of accidental shootin’.

Personally I wouldn’t never leave a person shoot a gun in the same boat
I was in unless I was sure they knew somethin’ about guns. Jim was a
sucker to leave a new beginner have his gun, let alone a halfwit. It
probably served Jim right, what he got. But still we miss him round
here. He certainly was a card!

Comb it wet or dry?


FOOTNOTES:

     [12] Copyright, 1925, by Liberty Weekly, Incorporated.
          Copyright, 1926, by Ring W. Lardner.




                            THE ILL WIND[13]

                           By ROBERT ROBINSON

                        (From _Collier’s Weekly_)


As best I can recollect, this is the way it happened:

I got up about the usual time that morning and went out to get some
kindling to make a fire with. Well, I noticed that it was kinda still
and sultry like, and I told Martha when I got back in that I believed
it was going to come a storm. She said she hoped it rained, as the
tomatoes needed it bad. You see, we’d set out a five-acre patch of them
about a week before. I didn’t tell her that I was afraid that it was
going to turn into a sandstorm. I knew she’d have a fit. She always
does.

Martha’d worked too hard. You see, we moved on this place more’n
fifteen years ago. We were young then, and we figured we’d make no end
of money. We came here from Missouri ’cause we wanted to get a start
so’s we could give the boy an education. We just had one kid then,
Johnnie. We got five now. But that ain’t got nothing to do with the
story. As I was saying, Martha’d worked too hard. We had to pay out the
place, and it seemed like luck would never break our way. The first
year the sod didn’t make enough to pay expenses; then several years we
were blown out by sand; the drought got us a couple of times; and then
we had a good many other things to happen that kinda took the wind out
of our sails.

And then there was another thing that I hate to mention that seemed to
worry her no end. You see, Martha was awful religious. She comes from
that kind of stock. For some reason or other I ain’t never took to
religion much. It always seemed like foolishness to me. That kinda hurt
her. And when everything begin to go wrong she laid it to me being so
ungodly. I used to laugh and joke her about it, but she took it serious
as ever’thing. She’d say:

“All right, you can joke about it all you want to, but some day you’ll
see. The Lord’ll exact His toll; He’ll make you pay.”

Well, she got up, and as usual she cried a little. I didn’t blame her.
Poor old Martha! She’d had such dreams, and they’d all been blown away,
as you might say. Then too she was a sick woman a lot of the time. She
had the neuralgia and the catarrh, and between them, with all the work
she did, they kept her feeling mighty poorly.

But, as I was saying, Martha got up, and after she’d had her little
cry she was all right. She got Minnie up--that’s our oldest girl--and
they started getting breakfast. It weren’t daylight yet, but the east
was beginning to get sorta rosy like and you could kinda smell the sun
a-coming. I rousted out Henry and Johnnie--they’re our oldest boys--and
we started to the barn to feed the stock.

Well, I saw that sure enough we were in for something. The red in the
east had spread until it covered quite a bit of the sky, and it didn’t
look like it usually does. It was as if somebody had hung a thin yellow
veil over it. And I noticed that there was a bank of dark-looking
clouds hanging low against the northwest sky line. And so I yelled
for Martha to leave breakfast alone and come milk before it started
raining, or something. I was purty sure by that time that it weren’t
going to be no ordinary rain, but I didn’t want Martha to know it till
she had to.

I’ve seen a lot of west Texas storms, and I’ve seen them break records
coming up, but I ain’t never seen one that could keep in smelling
distance of that one that morning. Why, do you know, by the time Martha
and Minnie could get to the cow pen and get one cow apiece milked that
bank of clouds was halfway up the sky and going so fast you could see
it a-moving. The sun was just peeping over the horizon and looking so
red and awful, and the air was so still, and you could hear for miles.
I made out ever’ word Old Man Holland said to one of his little boys,
who it ’peared had done something he shouldn’t, and it was more’n two
miles over to their place. The air had a sort of pressing-down effect.
You kinda had to put out an effort to get enough breath to keep you
from gasping. And sweat! It just poured down my face.

Well, I went on back in the barn and began shucking some corn to shell
so as I could take it to town the next day, Saturday, and get it
ground into meal. Directly I heard Martha let out a squeal and I knew
something was up. I hurried out and saw her standing in the middle of
the cow lot looking about her in a wild sort of way. She kinda looks
wild, anyway, when she first gets up, with her hair a-stringing down
and her dress askew.

“It’s going to come a cyclone!” she yells to me. And then she tells
Minnie to come on, and away they goes to the house lickity split. She
hollers and tells me to come on and let’s go down the cellar.

I looked about and, by heck, I felt like making a run for the hole
myself. The cloud had spread away over the barn, and on both the east
and west there was a rolling, working mass of sand a-tearing along the
prairie at a terrific rate. Above I could hear the wind rumbling and
growling, and about a mile and a half away I saw bearing down on me a
black, awful-looking mass. And there weren’t a breath of air a-stirring
where I was. And hot! Gosh, but the sweat was just naturally pouring
off me!

Well, you can tell the world that I made fast time getting to the
house. By the time I was there Martha had all the kids out in the yard.
We went down the cellar, and I managed to pull the door too just as the
first whiff of wind hit.

Well, we stayed down there for I guess as long as thirty minutes. By
that time the hardest part of the wind, it seemed, had passed. Now,
that doesn’t mean that it weren’t blowing yet. Gosh, no! It was still
moaning and whistling, making the craziest sound in the cellar flue.
I stayed down there till I judged that it was safe to come out, and I
started to open up. Martha she kicked some, but I told her I wanted to
see what the wind had done to everything. I raised the door a little,
and the wind got a whip at it. Danged if it didn’t tear it right out
of my hands and bust it into a dozen pieces against the ground. Then
there weren’t nothing else to do but come out.

Martha she grabbed the kids and said she weren’t coming out, but when
she saw me standing up she judged it was safe, so she took a chance and
came about halfway up the steps. There came a moment’s lull about that
time. Now, I don’t mean that the wind quit blowing. Land, no! I just
mean that it didn’t blow so hard for a minute or so. Martha saw that I
knew what I was talking about, so she hustled the kids out, and they
got ready to make a run for the house.

Well, about that time along came a hard gust and caught Molly--that’s
our second girl--right in the middle and blew her sky-winding. It
didn’t hurt her none, and I saw it, so I laughed. Now, maybe that
didn’t make Martha mad. Gosh! She started after Molly, who couldn’t
seem to get her feet, and danged if Martha didn’t get turned over. Then
I seen that it was time for me to take a hand, so I did. I got ’em both
on their feet, but Martha, she couldn’t seem to stand. She said it’d
hurt her back; that she guessed that I was satisfied now that I had
probably killed her; that that’s what I’d been trying to do for a long
time.

Now Martha she knew better than that, but when she gets all wrought up
she jest has to say something like that. Of course her back weren’t
broke. It was just her imagination. She’s got anything beat for
imagining things that I ever seen. But you can tell the world that she
gave me Hail Columbia just the same.

Well, I finally got ’em all safely in the house, and then I begin to
try to see what damage had been done to the other buildings. I expected
to see every one of ’em laying slap on the ground. I couldn’t see very
well from the window, but I could tell that at least a part of the
barn was standing. Then I looked for the chicken house, but it weren’t
nowhere to be seen. Right then and there I said to myself that I had to
go out and see about it.

Martha she didn’t want me to.

“That’s it. Go out and get yourself killed and then what’ll become of
us?” she says with the tears a-running down her cheeks.

Just for fun I put in, kinda innocent like:

“Why, Martha, I didn’t think I amounted to much around here anyway, to
hear you tell it.”

Well, sir, I hadn’t no more’n got that out of my mouth than I was
sorry as heck that I’d said it. She begin to cry and take on something
terrible. Said that I was just making that up; that it was me that
didn’t care anything for her; that I’d go out and get my neck broke and
leave the poor little children to be orphans. To quiet her I told her
I wouldn’t go. And then I begin peering out of the windows of every
room that gave me a view of the lots and chicken house; and I begin to
wonder out loud what had become of them chickens. D’rectly Martha she
says:

“Looks like you’d go out and see about them instead of setting around
in here and letting ’em blow away.”

Now, that’s just like Martha. It hadn’t been five minutes before that
she was crying because I was thinking of going out. Anyway, I went.

Them chickens was a sight to behold. When the wind took their house and
sent it flying from over their heads they was sent rolling and tumbling
every which way. Least, I guess they were from the way they were
scattered. Some of ’em had caught against the garden fence--it was made
out of hog wire--but most of ’em had been blown out across the field
where they’d been able to get protection behind some new listed furrows
that I had plowed only a few days before.

The cow shed was gone and the fence was down. The cows had drifted up
against the wire fence that separated the pasture from the fields.
There they stood, their heads down, all hunched up like they used to
do on cold winter days. But now, instead of snow caked on their backs,
it was sand. Every once and a while an extra hard puff would send ’em
forward like it was going to make ’em get in the fence. That kinda
skeered me, so I went back to the house and got Johnnie to come and
help me put ’em in the horse lot. Martha objected to him going out, but
he didn’t listen, just came a-tearing. He was tickled to death to get
out. It was a kind of picnic for him. Least, he ’peared to take it
that way. All the kids seemed to be having a rip-roaring good time out
of the storm. But you can tell the world that I weren’t.

Well, we tried to drive them cows in the lot. Every time we’d turn them
against the wind they’d blink their eyes, shake their heads, go a few
paces, and then turn around and start tearing back to the fence. About
the third time we tried it one of ’em went too far and got in the wire
just as I was afraid she would. We tried to get her out, and she pulled
and sawed about, which made it all the worse. She got all tangled up
and tore down the wire.

We tried to get old Boss out of the fence, but she was helpless. Poor
old thing! I seen that she was a goner, so to put her out of her misery
I sent Johnnie in the house to get the gun. I told him not to let his
ma see him, but it was wasted breath. She spied him on the road out and
follered him just a-boiling. Of course she didn’t know what he’d come
after the gun for, and it skeered her. Then she saw what’d happened. Of
course she laid it on to me. Land, how she did carry on!

We shot Boss. Then I went down and found out that the horses were
faring purty well, considering ever’thing. They were all covered in
sand, but that weren’t nothing. I fed ’em and killed as much time as I
could, ’cause I wanted to stay away from the house as long as possible.
I knew good and well that Martha’d pour it onto me hot and heavy when I
came in.

But, do you know, when I got in she didn’t say a word for a long time.
She was a-setting in the sitting room rocking back and forth in a chair
that we’d got from Chicago a couple of years before. She just set there
and rocked and looked at me so funny I felt downright creepy. I’d a
whole lot druther she’d ’a’ give it to me hot and heavy. Fact is, I
tried to start her. I says, kinda funny like:

“Well, it looks like the good Lord don’t like us none a-tall. Don’t
look like He’d ’a’ treated you this way, Martha.”

I thought sure that’d make her boil over, but it didn’t. She just kept
rocking back and forth and looking at me in that strange sort of way.
I noticed a couple of tears that were running down her cheeks. They
made little clear streaks through the dust. Maybe you think I wasn’t
getting skeered.

“What’s the matter, Martha?” I asks in an anxious voice.

She didn’t answer a-tall.

“Do you feel bad?”

Still no answer. She just kept right on a-rocking and a-rocking, and
she kept right on looking at me in that crazy sort of way. Then she
says in a awful voice:

“The Lord’s judgment has fell upon us.”

Gosh, but I felt creepy! It was so gloomy there in the room in spite
of it being broad open daylight. You see, the sun was hid behind dust
clouds and the windows didn’t let in much light, they were so dirty.
The sand was a-drizzling down from the ceiling and a-coming in through
the cracks around the windows and doors; the wind was howling about the
roof of the house; and there she set and just rocked and rocked, and
every now and then she’d say:

“The Lord’s judgment has fell upon us.”

I tried to get her to go to bed, but she wouldn’t make a move; I got
up and traipsed around trying to stir up some noise so’s I could drive
away that creepy feeling that she gave me with her rocking and saying
in such a awful voice that the Lord’s judgment was upon us. But somehow
it didn’t do no good. I began to be afraid that she was going crazy,
and the more I watched her the more I believed it. I had often thought
that she’d do it some time when she’d get on one of her tears.

Every now and then she’d raise her hands up toward the ceiling and make
the craziest motions and mutter something under her breath. And all the
time she just kept a-rocking and a-rocking.

I tried several things to arouse her. The kids were beginning to
notice it and to get scared and to cry. Leastwise, the youngest ones
was. Finally I happened to think of a bright idea. If I’d pretend I’d
suddenly got religion, thinks I to myself, maybe she’d get cheered up
and get over her spell. I kinda hated to do it because I hated to be a
hypocrite, but, thinks I, circumstances alter cases, so I decided to
take a shot.

I went around where she could see me and got down on my knees and begin
to pray. I asked her to help me; said I felt the spirit of the Lord
descending upon me. Then I knew at once that I’d hit the nail right on
the head. She let out a shout and fell on her knees by my side, and
such praying I never heard before. It actually skeered me, she was so
wild about it. She’d throw up her arms and cry out at the top of her
voice for the Lord to send down His blessed healing power and wipe out
all my sins. The little kids, they got skeered and begin to squall with
all their might, and Johnnie, Minnie and Mollie were struck dumb at
first; then they fell on their knees and begin to pray. That only added
fuel to Martha’s praying.

“Lord,” she screamed above the roar of the storm, “Thou seest this
man’s children on their knees to you pleading that you wash away
their papa’s sins; you see his wife that has lived with him in all
his wickedness all these years, kneeling and asking you to send your
healing grace.”

About that time she got all choked up, and I decided it was time for
me to give up, so I suddenly got up and told her that I saw the light;
that I was saved.

Well, I’ve seen some wild ones in my time, but never one as crazy as
she was for the next ten minutes or so. She begin to shout and jump
around; then she threw her arms around my neck and praised the Lord so
loud in my ear she nearly busted my eardrum; she sang and she shouted
hurrah, hosannah, bless His precious name, and other such things, until
the house fairly rung with her voice above the shriek of the storm. And
Minnie, who is kinda like her ma in being religious and excitable like,
begin to shout and sing too. Maybe you think that between them and the
storm and the kids a-squalling there weren’t some racket being made. I
felt kinda foolish.

The rest of the day Martha was so cheerful it made me ashamed of myself.

Thinks I: why, if I’d ’a’ known that it’d make so much difference to
her I’d ’a’ confessed a long time ago. I’d ’a’ been a hypocrite to give
Martha that much pleasure because she ain’t had any too much joy in
this life, anyway.

Well, I joined the church, and I ain’t never had the nerve to tell
Martha what a hypocrite I’ve been. She’s been much happier. Of course
she gets on a spell now and then, but not near as often as she used
to. She’s feeling much better too. I guess, all and all, it’s a good
thing, a mighty good thing. Anyway, that’s how I come to be such a
church-goer. They elected me deacon not long ago, said I was the
regularest attending member they had. I don’t feel near so bad about
being a hypocrite, any more. The fact is, I don’t know for sure that I
am one.


FOOTNOTES:

     [13] Copyright, 1925, by P. F. Collier & Son Company.
          Copyright, 1926, by Robert Robinson.




                            THE OLD LADY[14]

                             By EVELYN SCOTT

                            (From _The Dial_)


The old lady was often to be seen walking on the beaches overlooked
by the hotels. She had been tall, but was now stooped, and always
advanced slowly, and with the help of a cane. In spite of the expensive
soberness of her dress, of fine stuffs not quite in the fashion,
yet much discussed by the maids in her hotel who expected generous
remuneration for their services to her, the old lady had not that aloof
confidence in herself and her position which is the usual endowment of
wealth. She smiled too frequently into the faces of those who looked at
her, and her excessive benevolence was like a subtle self-apology.

Her thoughts could not be read, and that was fortunate. When she
awakened in the morning in a stately bed, from which, against an
opposite wall of her large room, she saw an _armoire_ flanked with
mirrors give back her image, she always, when possible, avoided
the contemplation of this reflection; or, compelled to confront a
revelation which caused her pain, remarked inwardly, “Can it be I?” and
tried vainly to recall another almost-obliterated impression of her
own features. Queer that, remembering so distinctly the most minute
incidents of a past that had been filled with dramatic interest, able
to visualize with exactitude the appearances of each of her friends,
today dead or separated from her by years and oceans, she had so much
difficulty in piecing together from fragments retained from the lost
years, even the vaguest representation of her own countenance as it had
been caught in looking-glasses long ago. People who had been dear to
her, and even the people she had once disliked, had not aged, nor had
they died, in that they existed continually in her thoughts in every
moment of the time. Only her own personality, in its once-youthful
aspect, had disappeared in the nothingness of a feeble present. She
sighed, and said to herself, “Well, I never was pretty.” Yet without
being pretty she had commanded affection and even very strong feeling.

It frightened her a little that she had become some one whom she did
not know, some one whom she could not look at with clear eyes.

For all the sadness which pervaded her meditations, she did not,
with truth, call herself unhappy. She slept badly, dreaming often of
her married daughter whom she had not seen for many months, and of a
dead son; but always, after noting the thinning of the darkness by a
dawn yet scarcely visible and feeling, upon her dry cheeks and in her
scanty hair, the still wind which rushed in a tide of freshness from
the suddenly audible sea, she would turn upon her side, and, as if
some sentinel duty of the night had been accomplished, find that she
could rest easily. Then, from this hour into the morning, she would
sleep like a child and awaken when the sun was shining rosily upon
the gilt-flowered bedroom walls, while the lace curtains between the
window hangings of brown-and-cream brocade seemed to expand as with an
ecstatic delicacy, and, in the gilded foliage of the dark plane tree
beyond them, birds sang.

Her maid, entering the chamber, and bringing the morning coffee in an
immaculate service, received a cheery “_Bon jour_,” but, offering to
assist the old lady at her toilet, was invariably sent away with a
refusal couched in the same terms. “Not yet, Françoise. The time for
that has not yet come.” And the old lady dressed herself. She waited
for something miraculous to occur. Every morning approached her with
an adventure which, finally, in the heat of noontime, had not revealed
itself.

She felt that Françoise was a “good girl,” who should be treated
generously, and the maid, stout, handsome, and slyly officious, with
the characteristics of a peasant initiate in the ways of the rich,
adopted in her manner toward her prosperous mistress, the attitude
of a mother. The old lady was not deceived as to the motives which
prompted this consideration, yet, in the passiveness of temperament
engendered by old age, did not condemn. “Well, poor girl. I must try
and do something for her. I’ll leave her something in my will.” And the
old lady felt drawn to the girl by the very exposure of self-interest
which, it seemed, should have been repelling. To know that some one
depended on you, if only for money, made you feel that your presence in
the world was yet of importance. Generous pity relieved the heart of
the old lady from the oppression of exhausted but persistent emotions
which had no outlet. There was no one to whom the old lady could
express herself.

Yes, she was lonely, though had she been asked if, in this loneliness,
she wished to depart to an oblivion in which loneliness is not felt,
she would have said, “No,” sincerely and emphatically. Trifles which
had once been of no account to her, objects and incidents which, in her
youth, had failed to interest her, now compelled her whole attention
and were infinitely precious. She loved her careful walks through the
French town. She loved the hardy appearance of the cabbages planted
in small gardens behind low fences covered with creepers. A neglected
bush of marigolds, jutting ruddy-coloured blossoms beyond a wall,
excited in her a tenderness for growing things. She watched the dark
swallows in their bat-flights above a puddle in the road, and their
shrill bleats, coming vaguely to her deaf ears, made her think of
them innocently as lambs. Strong sunlight, stagnant upon the plaster
façade of a dwelling, enchanted her. When, with a final exertion of
her ever-waning strength, she climbed slowly, among heaps of refuse,
to the summit of a crooked street which terminated on a hillside, and
could gaze below her, between ancient roofs which interceded in the
view, at the countryside--the still avalanches of the mountains, the
small villages crushed under the red roofs that surmounted the houses,
the acres of vines, tremblingly outspread in the soaring light of
morning and resembling still lakes of green silk--the immense silence
which lay beyond the town in which she was visiting seemed to her to
enwrap her benevolently, and the whole world, dissension and struggle
obliterated, was a friendly place.

It was only at noontime, in the heat of the day, when, after taking
her luncheon in the table d’hôte downstairs and, with nodding head,
listening for half an hour to some Spanish singers who, on a terrace
ornamented with palms and young trees in pots and covered over by a
pergola on which roses twined, were entertaining the guests of the
hotel, she rested in her bedroom, that she felt depressed. The sunshine
filled the street below her window, but the stillness it made, as
the heat arrested the play of children and hushed their voices, and
footsteps became so occasional that they echoed on the cobbles as
footsteps echo in the night--this stillness was terrible and oppressive.

She lowered the Venetian blinds upon her balconies, and, in a
semi-glow, in which the unchanging aspect of objects in her room became
pronounced, she lay on her bed again, her eyes closed, and tried to
sleep. Sleep was impossible. Her cheeks, pale and withered and covered
by a scarcely-perceptible down of white, were hot and parched. With
no relief from the violence of the light, that, even through drawn
curtains could be discerned in the stolid brilliance of a stucco
building opposite the hotel, she moistened her lips, several times
adjusted the pillow beneath her head, and, without being conscious of
the sounds she uttered, moaned slightly.

Her health was bad. At any moment she might have a recurrence of
the heart trouble from which she suffered, a malady from which she
would, at last, most certainly die. But it was not of death that she
thought. Indeed she refused to think of death. It pleased her better
to imagine that she would live a long time--a long, long, long time.
And when, in her promenades, her steps turned inadvertently toward
the cemetery, with its crumbling mausoleums making little intimate
avenues for the dead below the black-green lines of conical cypress
trees, she experienced, in her first glimpse of the tombs, decorated as
for a perpetual holiday with wreaths of colored beads, black, violet,
pale-blue, and white, and with bouquets of artificial flowers, a sudden
shock of fright, of amazement--of some emotion which she did not
attempt to describe--and turned back.

Why was she traveling like this, going all over Europe, from one hotel
to another, rarely encountering an acquaintance and certainly not
amusing herself in the ways habitual with tourists? In her young days
she had been too much occupied with personal affairs to give much of
her energy to travel. There was a great deal of the world that she had
never seen. Now that her daughter was married, absorbed by interests in
which the old lady had but slight part, and her son was dead, she, the
old lady, had uninterrupted opportunity to see odd corners of the globe
that had always intrigued her--even the names of the towns she visited
were those that had, years ago, seemed to her remarkable. Besides she
had a terror, continual if not dwelt upon, of being unwanted, and so,
rather than remain as a tolerated outsider in her daughter’s home, she
had preferred the company of strangers who were not obliged to show her
any attentions that were not quite spontaneous.

On the terrace of the hotel, under the pergola covered with roses
and with foliage which had turned blue and artificial in the glow of
the electric lamps, the old lady sat in the evenings, watching those
who came and went from the dancing in the saloon, while she tried to
make herself unobtrusive. If a young couple, approaching her, ignored
her, and it could be seen that they were covertly making love to one
another, the old lady moved further away into the shadows and out of
hearing. There she was able, when lifting her gaze, to discern the
stars which, at one instant, appeared to her quite brilliant, while
the next minute she saw only darkness, and could hear, distant under
the rotating melody of a waltz played by an orchestra, a rushing sound
in her ears which might be the sea and might only be the beating of
her own heart. She always preferred to think the sound was the sea,
and then she would rise and walk about, still clinging to the shadows
and, because she was forgotten, feeling her own person as the person of
another whom she also desired to forget.

No, the day was happier than the night. She loved children. In her
black dress and bonnet, she often walked, with her stick, along the
beaches. There she encountered children. She recalled the delights of
her own childhood and longed to be able, in some manner, to indicate to
the children, in some way which would convince them, that she had been
a child, and that childhood was not foreign to her, as they supposed.
And she was humiliated by something grotesque in this longing, as if
she had convicted herself of a jealousy of youth.

The children paid no heed to her, and, screaming as they ran, they
brushed past her blowing skirts, brushed past her and ran down to the
sea. Feeling a pain which was so ignoble that she refused to recognize
it, she thought, “They are so young. They don’t understand.” And she
prayed to be able always to love children as she did now, and to wish
for them, with her whole being, saturate with gratitude for a happy
past, a continuance of their light-heartedness.

After such an experience, returning to the hotel, she wrote letters,
to keep herself from growing “stale,” as she smilingly called it,
letters to her daughter, letters to old acquaintances--some of them had
almost ceased to take account of her existence--and the reward for this
insistent attention to those who were far away, perhaps forever, was
an interest in the coming of the postman, so keen that it embarrassed
her. Often the mails brought her nothing at all, or there came a
letter from some old friend who, burdened with age, expressed herself
entirely in the utterance of complaints. “Poor Jane, poor Sally, poor
Louisa,” the old lady would say, and try to evade the fact that she had
anticipated a letter of a different kind, a letter containing something
stimulating, something of especial interest, or something complimentary
to herself. It seemed to her that her own troubles would have been
quite bearable if only her dear old friends could find, as she did,
the philosophical compensations of maturity. Occasionally, in her
travels, she encountered a woman like herself, old, isolate, seeking,
in new sights and scenes, a substitute for the personal drama which was
finished. “Poor woman,” the old lady would say of the other old woman,
then, suddenly, realizing that the one she pitied was like herself, and
alarmed by the sense of an intolerable identity, she would conjure up
cheerful thoughts and, from that time forward, gently avoid the new
acquaintance, and this without any intention of being cruel, but simply
to preserve something necessary to her.

“We must all live our own lives. We old people have no right to prey
upon our children,” she often said. And it was this conviction which
made her, secretly, a little afraid of her grandchildren of whom her
daughter sent her photographs--the daughter who, with the dead son, had
been for many years the one absorption of the old lady’s life. When
she meditated upon the joys of maternity and the intimate relations
of a family, the old lady became confused. In some manner, in spite
of her devotion, her attitude toward her children had been an error,
but an error which she would never be able to localize within her or
describe to herself accurately. She only felt that such error, or its
equivalent, must be common to all the world, and, in apologizing so
constantly for herself, she apologized for others, too, and found that
any emotion which was not pity had become incomprehensible to her. The
most frightening thing of all was that pity itself required a defence,
and her very desire to confess for herself and admit for others
inadequacy, without condemning it, was the basis of her real apartness
from her former life. She wanted to state all this intelligibly, but
she had never been able to do so. Her thoughts became lost again in the
past, when her eyes filled with tears and the grief she had felt at her
husband’s death came back to her--not the grief she had experienced
at the time, to which her health had succumbed while her reason was
threatened, but another despair which was without any quality of
protest and which she vainly attempted to unify with the emotions of
twenty years before. She even tried to grieve more, but without success.

It was her present incapacity for strong passion which drove her, in
her phantomlike existence, to dependence on routine, and the concrete
regularity of meal hours had become as important to her as any critical
event. In the vast dining saloon with its glass front overlooking
the water, she was punctual at one o’clock and at half-past seven,
and, though her appetite was variable, she was always one of the last
to leave the table. What nice young people those two in the corner
were, the ones who were newly married, and what an excellent mamma
was the stout woman of thirty with the little daughter. The old lady
usually had some pleasant remark for the waiter who, good-humored and
polite, was ready to serve her immediately upon her entrance into
the room, though he was somewhat perfunctory and reserved his most
refined solicitude for persons who, not poorer than she was, were more
difficult to please. She liked hot coffee that burned her withered
lips, and Michael was careful to bring coffee steaming and perfumed,
and she drank it on the terrace. Yet she bored him. There was nothing
beyond her guessed-at fortune to supply material for scandals or invite
interest.

She did not resent living alone, but she was often conscious of her
lonely appearance and of what it might suggest to others. She wished,
on that account, to exhibit an occupation. When she went to the writing
room or sat on the beach, she carried a book with her, turned over the
pages carefully, and appreciated, perhaps, a paragraph of what she
read, but many of the lines she perused might have been inscribed in
some strange language as remote as a language of the Orient. Refusing
to confront this incapacity to receive, mentally, the new impression,
the secret of the universe was, to her, as if buried inscrutably in her
own soul, and to be divulged--if ever--in a reconstructed understanding
of what had happened to her, an understanding which included even the
most trivial incidents of former days. To have lived, loved, borne
children, and grown old was to have known everything. Why could she
find no words to make this meaning of intimate things intelligible to
her fellow men? Because she could not speak and make herself heard,
it was often as though, in living so fully, she had never lived. Her
heart beat in a troubled way. Her hands, on the leaves of her book,
trembled, and she resisted being sorry for herself. She tried to take
comfort in a religion in which her faith was no longer orthodox, and
ended, finally, with this great pity for the world which did not
ask to be pitied and despised pity--pity which was--she sometimes
doubtfully conjectured it--the reflection of her own weakness. Then
the only recourse from these vague and half-comprehended thoughts
was to consider a change to a new scene, a journey which would tax
her strength, in which, in speaking to Françoise, the old lady would
ridicule weakness and make light of it. Or she would rise from her
deck-chair and walk in the sunshine along the beach.

The blue waters, angry and violent in the wind that flapped her skirts,
suggested to her a darkness of night in which green fields are visible.
The poetry of the comparison pleased her, as the image appeared
unpremeditatedly from her mind, and was like a memory of youth. As
she watched that steady onward movement of waters upon the land, she
experienced what was to her, in this day, a rare moment, a moment of
positive happiness.

Beyond the pier, where she walked, leaning on her stick, the
sea surrounded the dripping rocks of a headland. The rocks were
bronze-colored and porous, like gutted and petrified combs of honey,
left there by bees of a giant size. Above them, in jagged curtains of
white foam, in the glow of the sun, the surf towered. For an instant
the suspended curtain hung twinkling in the light, to descend, with
the transcience of dew and the indolence of a floating veil, upon the
agitation of waves which had conveyed it. The surface of glass which
was the ocean, voluminous and rocking, like the sun-inflamed canopy
of a glass tent, washed up and down magnificently, somnolently, as a
cradle gently rocked, and the enormous tents of water, built up one
after another, were covered all over with globules of sunshine, round
and crystal, trembling like the drops that fall hesitatingly from metal
which, made over-warm, has begun to cool again.

Once more the foam concentrated in seething currents, rushing together
with subterranean hisses. The foam concentrated, lifted, and made a
glittering edifice of snow, harsh, exquisite, and momentary, like the
Gothic traceries of frost. The tower of marble, of a lacy substance, of
the purity of linen left long to bleach, but with the adamant glitter
of diamonds, sank easily, waned in prismatic reflections, and was no
more than a pale breath, breathed on the distance of the intense sky
and evaporating like mist. Little water-spouts, such as pour from the
gargoyle-mouths of old fountains, ran steadily downward from crevices
in the stones. The tide rattled among the boulders. The sea had
subsided, only to come forward as before, but with a more implacable
ease. A glass tube, transparent on the length of the shore, showed, in
a bottle-blue wall, ribbon-tangles of reddish seaweed, designed in the
clear substance with the design of objects caught in amber. The swell,
with its mounting undulations, resolved in long blades of crystal,
run high in the air in a concave symmetry in which sank massive and
transparent shadows that were the reflections of the waves themselves,
carving the beaches.

The old lady’s bonnet-strings whipped out under her chin, her wide
black dress was full like a banner and beat her legs, yet, though she
steadied herself against the onslaught of winds, felt salt vapors upon
her face, and was obliged to squint and lower her wrinkled lids against
the glare, she saw everything vividly. The foam, curdling the sands,
sticky amber and smooth as mirrors, was a flat scallop, like a ruffle
of soapsuds, and the scallops ran down coruscations and runnels that
were the imprints of wavy hair, faintly golden. A cold smell of rotted
fish and kelp came to the old lady on the same breeze that wafted to
her the screams of the children, of the little boys in their striped
bathing costumes who were wading in the shallows. And little girls in
white, little girls, barefoot, with sand-buckets and shovels, their
short skirts tilted behind their flying legs, were heard shrieking
happily as they swooped, like a flock of small gulls, straight down
to the water’s edge. More obscurely, as from a more vast distance,
the old lady heard the voices of the grown-up bathers, who, swimming
far out into the breakers, were carried, with heads bobbing, to an
immense height, lifted, by the indifferent sapphire waters, as upon the
flashing shoulders of armored giants.

Then she turned toward the sultry horizon, where the brilliance of the
day succumbed to the overshadowing of clouds, and to something less
visible--perhaps an emanation from the light itself--which was like
unseen smoke. Beyond the cobalt welter of sun and waves, incessantly
flaked as with white flowers, a boat balanced quietly under one sail,
stood, upon the emptiness, like a swan upon a still lake, its head
under its wing.

The old lady was fatigued by this unforeseen intensity of visual
appreciation. She had come to the end of the pier, and, turning
reluctantly, began to retrace her footsteps to the hotel. On the shore
she noted the rosy and dusked loftiness of the retreating mountains,
their peaks somber under the fogs of a summer rainstorm, while on the
rusted slopes the deep green of the trees suggested a relief of velvet
on an old brocade, the crushed foliage of the pines and cork oaks
hinting at the tactile qualities of variegated mosses. The fashionable
hotels along the waterfront, built in stucco and somewhat in the
Spanish style, ancient houses in the town with walls of plaster or
rubble, all showed in a violent radiance of sinking sun in which the
pallor of white surfaces and the redness of far-off roofs received a
remote emphasis on objects which seemed the minute dwellings of dolls.

And the old lady was suddenly overcome by an emotion which she
afterwards preferred to forget. What she felt, as she turned from her
promenade, the sea-wind stinging her flaccid cheeks, was an immanence
of death, which came to her from nowhere out of nothing--from the cries
of the children, from the boat, the breeze, from the vast water that
flowed after her. Yes, most of all from the sea, the sea flashing in
the sunshine, the great sea, monotonous, voracious, untouched, and
merciless. “I shall die,” she thought, “but _they_ will die, too.” In
“they” she included the people in the village, the bathers in the surf,
and the ladies in their organdie frocks and flowered hats, with the
gentlemen in flannels, gentlemen dressed so precisely, if carelessly,
in imitations of the English style--the old lady, as she approached the
termination of her walk, could now see them all. And the quiet gale
that swept past her from some space infinitely distant, beyond even
the clouds of the coming rainstorm, was the breath of a holocaust.
“_They_” were all dead, all the people who covered the security of the
land, people the old lady loved and had loved, indeed people who were
dead already. That the sea was, had been, and always would be--long,
long after these, the young, the happy, the oblivious, had ceased to
live--this sea, of which she herself was afraid, so that she had never
undertaken an ocean voyage without a tremor, the sea comforted her with
an immense and terrible comfort, so that, for an instant, her spirit
flamed coldly and intensely. All was light, sunshine, happiness, and
moving waters, and all was death, forever and ever death--though she
scarcely called it so exactly, or by that name.

Then her eyes grew dim. The peculiar accuracy with which, the moment
before, she had viewed and absorbed the details of her surroundings,
faded in her habitual hesitance and vagueness. She began to think of
saving her strength, of getting back to the hotel in time for her tea
when she would eat some nice little _brioches_, of buying Françoise a
new dress. Entering the hotel lobby at just quarter to five o’clock,
weak and at peace as after some exhausting victory, she gave to her
heart the shadowy acknowledgment of its new strength, and, in spite of
her cheerful resolutions, was conscious of a faint, austere bitterness.


FOOTNOTES:

     [14] Copyright, 1925, by The Dial Publishing Company, Inc.
          Copyright, 1926, by Evelyn Scott.




                            OLD MAN LEDGE[15]

                             By MAY STANLEY

                      (From _The Pictorial Review_)


Beyond Bald Head a long white curve of beach held the old house in
an encircling arm. There were no other buildings in sight. A thick
growth of stunted spruces ran down to a meadow covered with coarse
beach-grass, and the house stood on a small rise of ground at the edge
of the meadow, commanding an unbroken view seaward. On one side the
foundation had rotted away, so that the gray, weather-beaten dwelling
leaned slightly as though striving to catch the faint murmur of the
tides.

Out at sea the waters glowed vividly, reflecting the brilliant colors
of sunset in wavering bars of rose and mauve and gold. The surface of
the bay heaved gently, thrusting long rollers beneath the fishing boat
as it swung in a wide curve around Bald Head.

“Thar she is!” Orin Pettishall twitched the tiller-ropes as he spoke.
The boat swung obediently toward an old dock which made a gray blot
against the background of white sand.

The girl nodded. “Bigger’n I thought ’twuz,” she said happily. “I wuz
over here onct cranberryin’ when I wuz leetle, but it’s bigger’n I
thought ’twuz then.”

“Yeah, it’s a good house,” he agreed, “even ef ’tis kind uv old.
Still an’ all, ’tain’t old when ye think they’s oak beams in it. Paw
says Captain Beath got some uv the beams fer his house outer his
vessel--arter she wuz wrecked on Old Man Ledge out thar.”

“Wonder how long ago ’tis?” Emily Widden glanced seaward. Half-tide
revealed the jagged rocks of Old Man Ledge standing up sharply above
the water.

“Dunno. ’Fore paw’s time, fer ’twuz grampy told him.” He swung the boat
deftly in beside the dock and made it fast. “Looks like the house’s
kinder settlin’ ter the one side. Hev ter straighten her up fust uv
all. Come on! I got ter see how much fixin’ the dock’ll need.”

With Emily beside him he went proudly across the dock, keeping a sharp
lookout for loose or rotting boards. Reaching shore, they paused
involuntarily and stood, hand in hand, looking up at the old house.

“Nicer’n I thought ’twuz goin’ ter be,” the girl murmured.

“Guess she’s goin’ ter be wuth what I’m payin’ fer her.” He tried to
speak calmly. “Seven hundred dollars ain’t sich a lot when ye think
’at they’s twenty acres goes with it--all this here shore-front an’
back inter the woods a piece. Paid the real estate fellers two hundred
dollars cash money, an’ I got three years ter find the rest in.”

Emily nodded. She had heard the story from Orin a half-dozen times
today, but it did not lose interest with repetition.

“We kin do ’at easy,” she said. “I kin hev chickens an’ put in a
garden. ’Twon’t cost us much ter live.”

“An’ they ain’t no reason ter put off gittin’ married,” he declared.
“We kin git married soon ez I git the house fixed up a mite an’ a
fish-house built.”

“Guess we kin,” she assented shyly.

They went quickly up the slope, along a path overgrown with weeds and
blackberry brambles. Emily cried out with pleasure at sight of a great
hedge of yellow lilies which lifted their slender stalks defiantly
above the encroaching weeds. At the front of the house a bricked walk
led up to a hooded doorway. High-backed seats had once stood on either
side. One of them was still in good repair, but the other sagged
forlornly on its broken supports.

“’Nough fixin’ ter keep me busy fer a while, I guess,” Orin commented
as he unlocked the front door. It swung open with painful creakings,
showing a square hall with doors on either side. “S’pose this must ’a’
been the parlor.” He led the way into a fair-sized room with windows
looking directly toward sea. Now they were so dark with dust and
spider-webs that little light came through. Opposite the door a stone
fireplace yawned.

“It’ll be nice here when we git it fixed up.” Emily looked about the
room curiously. “Le’s see the rest uv it.”

They passed through the door at the back which led into a small
bedroom, returned to the hall, and inspected in turn the dining room,
kitchen, and woodshed on the opposite side of the house.

“Le’s go down in the yard an’ see what the well’s like,” Emily proposed.

“I’d oughter go down cellar an’ hev a look at the foundation,” he
objected. “Ef I wait any longer it’ll be too dark ter see anythin’. You
go an’ hev a look at the well while I’m down cellar.”

“A’ right. I won’t be long.”

She ran down the steps, paused for a moment while her eyes searched
for a path, found it, and ran lightly along, pushing aside weeds and
brambles. Near a clump of spruces she saw the well-sweep and was going
toward it when her glance was caught by something at the left of the
house--something which showed gray in the surrounding greenness.

“Wonder what’s thar?” Making her way through the intervening growth,
she cautiously lifted a matted bramble, then dropped it with a startled
exclamation and began to run back toward the house.

“Orin!” she called. “Orin!”

Orin came out on the back porch, his face reflecting the satisfaction
he felt.

“’Tain’t goin’ ter be much work ter fix up the foundation. Not near so
much----” He paused at sight of her white face. “What’s come ter ye?”

“Thar’s a grave out thar!” Her voice was trembling. “Somebody’s grave!
I see it when I wuz goin’ down ter the well.”

“Guess ye must be mistook,” he said wonderingly. “Never heared tell uv
nobody bein’ buried here.”

“I see the gravestun ez I wuz goin’ down ter the well,” she explained
breathlessly. “It’s kind uv layin’ down. Ye kain’t hardly see it
’ceptin’ it ketches the light. Come an’ see fer yerself.” She led him
down the path, unmindful of the brambles which caught and tore at her
skirt. “Thar ’tis!”

Orin Pettishall stared at it thoughtfully, then stooped and tried to
read the words cut in the moldy stone.

“Too dark,” he said at length. “Torch’s down in the boa-at. I’ll go git
it.”

“Let me go fer it--I’d ruther.”

“What’s the matter?” He glanced up, conscious of the fear in her voice.
“Ain’t scart uv an ol’ gravestun, air ye?”

“N-o. Only I’d ruther go.” She hurried off.

Left to himself, the boy sat down beside the grave and gazed proudly up
at the house. His house! Pretty nice to be able to buy it and move into
his own home this fall, when he and Emily were married. Pretty nice! If
lobster prices stayed up he’d maybe be able to pay something more on
it before Christmas. He was whistling jubilantly when Emily, hurrying
back, thrust the torch into his hands.

“Read what it says!” she directed.

Holding the light close to the moldy stone, he read slowly:
“‘Sacred--to the m--Nehemiah Hill--departed’--they’s a big chip out uv
the stone here--‘May thirtieth, eighteen hundred an’ fifty-two--Greater
love hath no man than this’--I kain’t read no more; it’s chipped off
some.”

“‘That a man lay down his life for his friends.’” The girl finished the
quotation in a hushed voice.

“Wonder who he wuz--Nehemiah Hill? I ain’t never heared tell uv no
Hills ’round here.”

“Dunno.” She rose, shivering. “Le’s go back, Orin. It’s gittin’ late.”

“I wanted ye ter see the cellar afore we go.”

“At’ll keep,” she said hastily, and turned to the path which led down
to the dock.

When he had started his engine and the fishing boat was chug-chugging
its way back to West Harbor, Pettishall turned to the girl.

“What come ter ye, Em’ly?” he asked. “Ye ain’t said a word sense we
started. ’At grave didn’t upset ye none, did it?”

“Yes--kind uv.”

“It don’t do no hurt, fur ez I kin see.” Disappointment made his voice
cold. “Thought ye liked the place.”

“So I do, only----”

“Only what?”

She turned to face him. “Dunno ez I c’d live whar they’s a grave,” she
said slowly. “It’s a nice place an’ all, only I dunno ez I c’d live
whar they’s a grave.”

“Dunno what makes ye feel like ’at. An’ anyways we got ter live thar. I
bought the place, ain’t I?”

“Yes.”

“Wa-al, we got ter live thar, ain’t we?”

She was silent.

“We got ter live thar, ain’t we? Seein’ I bought it, we got ter live
thar.” Frustration, injured pride, bewilderment, were in the words.

“Dunno ez we hev,” she retorted. “Leastways, dunno ez _I_ hev. They
ain’t nothin’ ter _make_ me!”

He did not reply, but stared straight in front of him, head up and lips
set in a stubborn line. She could talk like that! That was all she
thought of their home, the home he was planning to get ready for her!
Well, if that was the way she felt about things----

“Orin!” Her voice was timid.

“Yes.”

“I ain’t meanin’ ter be cross ner spiteful. It’s only----”

“Only ye don’t like the place I bought fer us. Wa-al, guess they ain’t
nothin’ more ter be said.”

“A’ right,” she replied coldly, “ef ’at’s the way ye feel. I ain’t
goin’ ter stay by myself, day in an’ day out, ’ith a grave ter keep me
comp’ny. I’d like the place fine ef the grave wa’n’t thar. Even ef we
knowed who ’twuz----”

“I kain’t he’p it, way things air,” he interrupted. “I didn’t know
’bout the grave when I bought the place, but it wouldn’t uv made no
diff’rence ter me ef I hed knowed. Way I see it we got ter live thar,
grave er no grave.”

She shook her head sorrowfully. “No, I ain’t goin’ ter live thar. I
knowed I wouldn’t soon ez ever I see the grave. I jes’ kain’t an’ they
ain’t no use in talkin’ uv it!”

“Wa-al,” Mrs. Widden said cheerfully, “what ye think uv the place Orin
bought?”

Her daughter, heavy-eyed from a sleepless night, looked up and said
drearily, “A’ right, I guess.”

“Mercy me! Is ’at all ye think uv it?”

“Did ye know somebody wuz buried thar?” Emily demanded. “Right beside
the house?”

“Mercy me!” Mrs. Widden exclaimed again. “I been cranberryin’ in the
medder a coupla times sense the ol’ captain died, but I never seed no
grave. Whose is it?”

“Dunno. Name on it’s Nehemiah Hill. D’ye know who ’at is?”

“Never heared tell uv no Hills in these here parts,” Mrs. Widden
shook her head solemnly. “They’s Hills over Lewiston way an’ they’s a
fambily--say, Paw,” as the door opened to admit Jeremy Widden’s bulk,
“did ye know somebody wuz buried over ter the ol’ Beath place?”

“Never heared tell uv it.” Widden clumped across to the sink and drank
hugely from a tin dipper. “Here’s Hannah Anne Pettishall comin’. Mebbe
she’ll know.”

“’Lo, ev’ybody!” Mrs. Pettishall panted genially. She was a huge
woman whose bulk almost filled the doorway and quite overflowed the
rocking-chair which Mrs. Widden pushed forward. “I’m all outer
crochet-cotton,” she explained, “an’ I thought I’d run over an’ borrer
a mite ter last till I kin git some f’om Po’tland.”

“Yeah, I got some,” Mrs. Widden replied, “same number ez what ye’re
usin’. D’ye know ’bout thar bein’ a grave on the place Orin jes’
bought?”

“Never heared tell uv one. Mebbe ’at’s what made Orin so
grumpy--wouldn’t say a decent word breakfus’-time.” She wiped her face
meditatively with a corner of her apron. “My, it’s hot fer this time
uv year! Ef ye hurry up an’ git married, Em’ly Widden, ye’ll still hev
summer fer yer weddin’.”

“I ain’t goin’ ter git married,” Emily said dully.

“Ye ain’t _what_?” her elders demanded in chorus.

“Me an’ Orin hed words las’ night,” Emily replied in a dull voice,
“’bout ’at grave. An’--an’--we hed words.”

“D’ye mean ter say you an’ Orin fit?” Mrs. Pettishall demanded. “Wisht
ye’d hurry an’ make up ef ye did, so’s he won’t be so grumpy.”

“I tol’ him I wouldn’t live no place whar they’s a grave ’longside uv
the house.”

“Fer any sakes!” Mrs. Pettishall stared at her prospective
daughter-in-law in frank amazement. “Ye don’t mean ter say ’at jes’
’cause they happens ter be a grave----”

“Wa’al, ef’ ’at’s the way Em’ly feels I guess she’s got a right,” Mrs.
Widden broke in.

“Now, Maw!” Widden counseled. “Stay out uv it an’ let the young folks
fight things out fer tharselves.”

But his wife was not to be so easily silenced. “Tell yer maw ’bout it,
Em’ly,” she commanded soothingly. “Tell yer maw what the trouble is. Ye
didn’t want ter live thar ’count uv the grave? Wuz ’at it?”

Emily nodded.

“Wa-al, I mus’ say--” Mrs. Pettishall began heavily.

“Orin said we’d hev ter live thar,” Emily explained. “An’ I said I
didn’t hev ter. An’ he said--” She dissolved into tears.

“Wa-al, he didn’t hev no right ter say it!” Mrs. Widden stormed. “Guess
my girl ain’t goin’ ter set up housekeepin’ in no graveyard!”

“Orin didn’t aim ter live in no graveyard,” Mrs. Pettishall returned
sharply. “I mus’ say, Lucindy----”

“An’ he kin jes’ stay ’way f’om Em’ly!” Mrs. Widden threw down the
wooden needle with which she had been knitting trap-heads, crossed the
kitchen, and took her disconsolate daughter into her arms. “Thar! Ye
don’t need ter take on! Ye don’t hev ter do nothin’ ye don’t want ter!”

Mrs. Pettishall got to her feet.

“Ef ye’d leave the young ’uns ’lone, Lucindy, an’ mind yer own
business,” she said angrily, “they’d mebbe git things patched up!
Stan’s ter reason they won’t so long ez ye keep interferin’!”

“Who’s interferin’?” Mrs. Widden demanded belligerently.

“You, fer one! I mus’ say I think Orin’s patient to put up ’ith Em’ly
actin’ like she’s doin’----”

“Thar now, Maw! Ca’m yerself!” Widden interposed.

“An’ ef I wuz in his place I wouldn’t stand fer it!” Mrs. Pettishall
continued bitterly. “They’s other girls----”

“Now, now, Hannah Anne!”

“Ez fer you, Jeremy Widden,” Mrs. Pettishall turned to him, the
slowly kindling wrath of a fat woman in her voice, “ef ye wuzn’t so
petticoat-ruled an’ put upon in yer own house ye’d do better----”

But here Mrs. Widden found voice. “Ef ye’ll jes’ go out uv my house,
Hannah Anne,” she said majestically, “an’ stay out it’s all I ask. I
don’t want you ner none uv your fambily ter darken my doors ag’in!”

“Now, Maw--” but the sound of the kitchen door slamming to behind Mrs.
Pettishall drowned Widden’s vain attempts to make peace.

Before nightfall every one in West Harbor knew that Lucinda Widden had
put Hannah Anne Pettishall out of her house because Hannah Anne didn’t
want Orin to marry Emily Widden, that some one of whom no one had ever
heard was buried over on the old Beath place, and that the real estate
people had given Orin Pettishall a hundred dollars to take the place
off their hands. Additional zest was given to these rumors when, in the
store that afternoon, the elder Pettishall told Jeremy Widden that he’d
just as soon have back the trawl which Widden had borrowed, and Widden
had retorted that any time Pettishall wanted to pay for having the new
engine put in his boat he’d better do it.

West Harbor gasped! Nothing so exciting had happened since the time
Hepsibah Gutch and Lefey Williams quarreled one day at dinner and threw
hot soup at each other. This was even worse than Hepsibah and Lefey!

Fred Hosmer said that in his opinion “growed-up folks hed oughter hev
more sense’n ter fight like kids.”

Will Ellery retorted that “it’s all in the way a feller looks at
things. Some folks ain’t got ’nough spunk ter start a fight.”

On which Fred Hosmer promptly invited Ellery out into the back yard if
he had any doubts about there being enough spunk around to lick any
Ellery that ever walked!

Some one intervened and a truce was patched up. Thereupon Mrs. Will
Ellery, indignant at the insinuation directed against her husband,
instituted a campaign against Mrs. Fred Hosmer, whose dearest wish
it was to be elected president of the church sewing-circle. She was
defeated by three votes and indignantly resigned, taking with her six
devoted friends who were among the best workers and who had always
cooked lavishly for box socials and baked-bean suppers.

Mrs. Uriah Goomes was heard to say that no one but a fool would think
of marrying Orin Pettishall, anyway. He was too smart and always trying
to get ahead of other folks. It was time he stubbed his toe. Which
remark, duly repeated, immediately dissolved friendly relations between
the Goomes and Pettishall families and led Mrs. Widden to remark
caustically that maybe Emily wasn’t such a fool as some people seemed
to think and, anyway, she wouldn’t ever be fool enough to marry any one
as lazy as Uriah Goomes, who, with his family, would have starved last
winter if every one in the Harbor hadn’t turned to and fed them!

Alva Ryder, the storekeeper, told some one that in his opinion the
whole trouble started with the Widdens and Pettishalls and ought to
have stayed there. Folks were foolish, he said, to mix up in other
folks’ rows. Every one on hearing this said that it was no wonder
Alva Ryder thought West Harbor folks foolish. The way they’d dealt
with him, year in and year out, paying the awful prices he charged
for everything, would make any one think they were weak in the head!
Hereafter they would buy groceries in Bath or Portland or else do
without.

Meetings at the schoolhouse had to be discontinued. No one but old
Uncle Henry Breedon, who was too deaf to hear anything, would go to
meeting after the Sunday when the Reverend Amos Putney preached from
the text, “Blessed are the peacemakers,” and referred pointedly to
local difficulties. Every one felt that Brother Putney might say what
he liked about people who danced or played cards or smoked--that was
his business. But any disagreement we might have with the Goomeses or
the Pettishalls or the Widdens was our own business and why did he want
to interfere? Besides, hadn’t the Widdens and the Pettishalls and the
Goomeses been the first to start trouble? Well, then, what could you
expect?

Time failed to heal the dissensions, which, indeed, grew in number and
bitterness as the weeks went by. Two of West Harbor’s most respected
citizens charged two others, equally respected, with stealing lobsters
from the former’s traps. The fish warden was pressed into service
and spent several long, chilly, and fruitless nights in watching for
the supposed offenders. He did not catch any one, but the sight of a
mysterious figure “pokin’ ’round” on Jim Mears’s dock so upset Mrs.
Mears that she took to her bed and remained there until Jimmy, junior,
was born. Thereafter she laid blame for the undeniable fact that Jimmy
wasn’t very bright to the scare which Warden Jim had given her, and
talked darkly of suing the State and getting even with somebody.

With the Sunday meetings discontinued and the sewing-circle disrupted
West Harbor women no longer convened save in groups of two or three.
Friendly borrowing of a cup of sugar or the “lend uv ’nough flour ter
make a mess uv biscuits” had ceased. Crochet- and dress-patterns were
no longer exchanged.

When the Fred Hosmers drove to Bath in their car they did not, as in
former days, stop to ask folks if they wanted anything from town, but
drove straight ahead. Fishermen no longer gathered in Alva Ryder’s
store in the evenings to exchange news of the Portland market or to
“swap yarns.” The chair dedicated to the fisherman who could tell the
best story was empty evening after evening. Down at the fish-houses
or out in the boats solitary figures worked sullenly, refraining from
looking up or giving a friendly hail when another boat passed.

Such was the state of things when Grammy Tagel--grandmother to the
Ellerys and the Tagels and great-aunt of Hannah Anne Pettishall--came
over from Augusta for a visit.

At first Emily Widden had refused to admit even to herself that her
quarrel with Orin was serious. He would come over to see her, she was
quite sure, and they would talk things over. Then Orin would sell the
old Beath place and buy somewhere else. She _couldn’t_ live beside a
grave. Nobody could! But Orin would see how things were, once they had
a good talk.

But Orin did not come. The days became weeks, and still, to Emily’s
dismay and hurt surprise, he made no sign. She couldn’t believe he
meant to stay away. Surely he was just mad at the fuss every one was
making and the things she herself had said. But he would get over it
soon. Then he would come to see her and they would talk things over.
From her father Emily learned that Orin had begun to “fix up” the old
house in his spare time. Mereen Tagel had gone over to help him repair
the foundation and build a fish-house.

The girl’s spirits sank at the news. She was forced to admit to herself
that Orin had no intention of selling. And that meant he didn’t
really care for her or how she felt about things. He had never cared!
Perhaps--the awful thought smote her like a blow--Orin must be going
to marry some one else. He wouldn’t be fixing up the house unless he
planned to live there soon. The girl ceased to watch for his coming. At
night she cried into her pillow quietly and unobtrusively as she did
everything else. She refused to say anything when her mother railed
angrily at the Pettishals, and only her pale, miserable face and
red-rimmed eyes told Mrs. Widden her daughter was not forgetting Orin
Pettishall--that she would never forget him.

And Orin was no happier. A hundred times he planned to see Emily, to
talk with her. Then he would remember that Emily did not really care
for him, that she had turned her back on the home he had bought for
her, refusing to live there. What was the use of going to see her when
she didn’t think enough of him to give up that silly feeling about a
grave? Some time she would be sorry for acting like she did!

He would fix up the old place and live there alone, the way Captain
Beath had done. Perhaps he would die there, alone. Emily would come to
the funeral. Maybe she would cry when she saw what she had done--sent
him away to die. Or, perhaps, she wouldn’t care enough to come to the
funeral. She would marry some one else, and when she heard the news
she would say, “He was always queer. Went away to live alone with
nothing to keep him company but a grave. No wonder he died!” Orin
resolved bitterly to live. What was the use of dying when nobody would
care what happened to you?

The only comfort he found was in hard work. He rose before dawn, hauled
trawl, carried his fish to market, then came back to work on the old
house until approaching twilight warned him it was time to bait trawl
for the next day’s set.

All through the quiet afternoons of late August he worked about the
place, completing his fish-house, cutting away weeds and brambles from
paths long unused, resetting bricks in the walk, repairing the broken
settle. Sometimes he pictured Emily sitting here in the long summer
evenings, busy with her sewing. He would be down at the fish-house
baiting trawl. Emily would come out after the supper dishes were washed
and wait here for him. When all the tubs of trawl were finished he
would come up to sit in the other high-backed seat. They would talk or,
perhaps, just sit listening to the tides along the beach.

He shook his head angrily, winking back unmanly tears. Emily would
never sit there in the quiet evenings. One seat would always be empty.
When his work was done he would come up to the house. There would be no
one to welcome him. He would sit there, watching the empty place--an
old, old man--alone.

West Harbor folks looked on Grammy Tagel as a “character.” Perhaps, in
days not so far gone, she would have been known as a soothsayer, and
people would have consulted her when grave decisions were to be made
and followed her shrewd advice. But now she was just an old woman with
a philosophy wrought out of long, hard years, an old woman who didn’t
hesitate to tell folks what she thought of their words and actions, and
who took an unbounded interest in the affairs of those about her.

Although more than ten years had passed since Grammy Tagel moved to
Augusta to make her home with a married granddaughter she still kept
in touch with all the principal events of the Harbor. She knew about
all births, marriages, and deaths. She could tell you who had moved
away in recent years and who had “built new”; had accurate information
regarding those who had “perfessed” religion at the annual revival
meetings and those who were still unsaved.

Today, with her chair drawn comfortably close to the stove, the old
woman turned inquiring eyes on Hannah Anne Pettishall.

“What’s wrong ’ith Orin?” she asked. “Looks kinder meachin’ ter me.”

“Yeah, he’s meachin’, a’ right,” Mrs. Pettishall agreed. She carried
a pan of cookies to the oven, put them in, dusted the flour from
her hands, and wiped her face thoughtfully with a corner of her
blue-and-white-checked gingham apron.

Grammy Tagel waited patiently.

“I hate ter say it,” Hannah Anne went back to the table and began to
roll out another mound of cooky dough, “but it looks ter me like he’s
still takin’ on ’count uv Em’ly Widden.”

“Which Widden?”

“Em’ly--Lucindy Means’s girl. Ye mind ’at Lucindy married Jeremy
Widden, Uncle Uriah’s first. The other boy, Lige, went ter Po’tland,
an’ folks say he’s doin’ well workin’ in a garage. Makin’ money hand
over fist, Uncle Uriah says. I dunno.”

“Don’t seem like Orin’s old ’nough ter be keepin’ comp’ny.” Grammy
Tagel deftly brought the conversation back. “Wuzn’t nothin’ but a
leetle squirt when I went off ter Augusty. Wuz they keepin’ comp’ny,
did ye say?”

Mrs. Pettishall nodded. “Yeah, fer more’n a year. Right up ter the time
Orin bought the ol’ Beath place----”

“Did he, now? Ye hedn’t told me afore. He’s a smart boy ter buy it.
Reel sightly place.”

“’At’s what I say--mercy! I fergot the cookies!” Snatching the pan from
the oven, she tested its contents anxiously, found them unharmed, and
transferred the cookies to a plate. “Hev one, Aunt ‘Miry?”

“Don’t mind ef I do. An’ ’n what happened?”

“Wa-al, right arter he bought the place Em’ly found a grave
thar--leastways she _says_ she did--an’ started actin’ up. Lucindy,
who’d oughter hed more sense, ups an’ sides ’ith Em’ly. Says ’at no
girl uv hern is goin’ ter set up housekeepin’ in a graveyard. The very
idear! I’m a good-tempered woman, ez ev’ybody knows, but I don’t stand
fer bein’ put upon, an’ I give the hull Widden fambily a piece uv my
mind.”

“An’ ’n what happened?”

“Folks ’at hed any sense tuck my side an’ some tuck ’tother. Stirred up
considerable to-do, ez ye might say.”

“Sh’dn’t wonder,” Grammy Tagel commented dryly. “What’d Orin an’ his
girl do?”

“They ain’t spoke sense--not ’at I know uv. An’ ef Orin hez any right
pride ’bout him----”

“Guess he’s got pride ’nough. I’ve allus noticed ’at young folks hez
too much pride ’bout things ’at matter.” The old woman got stiffly to
her feet. “Guess I’ll go ’long over an’ set ’ith Jerushy Spinney fer a
spell. Still in bed, ain’t she?”

“Yes, an’ likely ter stay thar. Doctor said ’smornin’ ’twuz the wust
stroke he’d ever see anybody hev.”

“Sh’dn’t wonder. Allus hed considerable temper, Jerushy hed, an’ temper
brings its own reward. You comin’ ’long?”

“No, don’t guess I kin. Got a mess uv biscuits ter make when I git
these here cookies done an’ a couple uv pies.”

“Wa-al, I won’t be long.”

Gathering an ample gray shawl about her shoulders and grasping her
stick, Grammy Tagel went down the steps and along the path to the
Spinney house. But she did not spend many minutes there. On learning
that Mrs. Spinney was asleep she declined an invitation to come in and
sit for a while, and turned to hobble along the road.

“Mercy me!” Mrs. Widden exclaimed, “ef ’at ain’t Grammy Tagel comin’
ter see us!” She hastened to the door. “Come right in, Grammy! I wuz
kinder wonderin’ ef ye’d drop in ter see us er ef ye wouldn’t--things
bein’ like they air.” She ushered her visitor into the kitchen.

“When ye git ter be my age, Lucindy,” Grammy Tagel replied, “ye won’t
pay much ’tention ter folks’ foolishness”; then, as Emily put down her
crocheting and came forward to place a chair for the old woman, “Ye
don’t say this is Em’ly! My, ain’t she growed up!”

“Sure is,” Mrs. Widden rejoined. “Kain’t make myself b’lieve it
sometimes.”

Grandmother Tagel regarded the girl searchingly, nodded as though some
question in her mind had been answered satisfactorily, and said, “I
stopped in ter see Jerushy Spinney on my way over. They been wonderin’
ef they’d oughter move her downstairs, but I tol’ ’em ter wait till
they’d talked ’ith you. I said ef anybody’d know whether they’d oughter
move her it’d be Lucindy Widden.”

“S’pose I best go over some time today,” Mrs. Widden mused.

“Yes, ef I wuz in yer place I’d go right now an’ see how things air.
I’ll jes’ set here an’ talk whilst ye’re gone.”

“Wa-al, I won’t be long.”

When Mrs. Widden’s apron-clad form had disappeared up the road
Grandmother Tagel beckoned to Emily.

“Come here an’ set down by me,” she said. “I got somethin’ ter tell ye
’at mebbe ye’ll be glad ter hear.”

       *       *       *       *       *

The sunshine of early afternoon had disappeared, swallowed up in
threatening, black clouds which trailed sooty vapors faster and faster
across the sky. Fitful gusts of wind had begun to lash the tops of the
long rollers into foam. Waves climbed higher and higher, vainly seeking
to escape the fury of the wind. Like a toy in the hands of an angry
child the fishing-boat was tossed and shaken violently to and fro. It
slipped sideways in the trough of a wave, started sluggishly to climb,
stopped half-way, and buried its nose in the water, which swept over
the canvas covering the bow and flew backward in sheets of spray.

The girl, who had until now been working frantically over the engine,
started up, grasped the tiller-ropes, and coaxed the bow up into the
wind. With no power to keep it going the little craft dropped off again
and swung about. The next wave caught it a violent blow and poured
water over the canvas until the floor of the boat was awash.

“Ef I c’d only make this en-jine go!” Sweat stood out on the girl’s
face in spite of the bitter chill which had crept into the air.
Lifting an arm impatiently, she swept the damp hair back from her
forehead and once more bent over the lifeless engine.

       *       *       *       *       *

It had seemed such an easy thing to do a half-hour back. She had left
Grammy Tagel sitting by the fire and hurried down to the dock, the
old woman’s words ringing in her ears: “They’s only one time ter put
trouble straight an’ ’at’s right away.”

She hadn’t even noticed that a storm was gathering. Her father’s boat
was not at the mooring. That meant he had gone to Portland. He wouldn’t
be back before five or six o’clock, and she couldn’t ask any one to
take her--not with the whole Harbor knowing about her quarrel with
Orin. It had seemed such a simple thing to just take Will Ellery’s boat
for an hour. He wouldn’t be using it again until tomorrow morning and
the engine was the same as her father’s. Who would think that it would
stop when she was out here opposite the Head?

A huge, wind-driven mountain of water towered suddenly above the
helpless boat, crashed down, just missing the bow and blotting out
the world in a welter of foam. A white squall! She _must_ make land
somehow. The boat wouldn’t ride out a squall with the engine crippled.

She couldn’t even hope for the chance of a tow. The weather-wise
fishermen had seen the storm coming and were all safe in harbor. If
only the engine would start she could still make the shelter beyond
Bald Head although wind and tide were sweeping her each moment farther
and farther out to sea.

Against the frail shelter of canvas the wind was now beating with long
moans that ended in furious shrieks. All around the drifting boat the
waves rose, horrible monsters with the foam of madness on their lips.
They struck against the boat with blows that made the frail thing
tremble like a creature in the last agony of fear. It plunged, rose,
and plunged again, vainly striving to shake off its tormentors. Long,
jagged streaks of lightning played across the sky and were reflected
fearfully in the black, tossing water, but no rain fell. If it would
only begin to rain! The sea would grow calm with the rain lashing
across it. But still the pent-up torrents remained in the black clouds.
Wind and sea screamed across the world.

Suddenly a new sound, a sound as of giant drums beaten furiously, made
the girl creep to the stern of the boat, heedless of the lashing spray,
and stare westward.

Old Man Ledge! The helpless boat was being carried straight toward it,
to the place where mighty waves lifted high in air before crashing down
on the jagged teeth of the reef. No boat could live once it was caught
in the grip of that swirling water! The girl sank to the floor of the
boat, shivering convulsively, her fear-numbed hands still clutching the
tiller-ropes.

At sight of the approaching storm Orin Pettishall ceased work on the
dock and went up to the house to close windows and make everything
secure. Kindling a heap of driftwood he had piled in the fireplace, he
sat down before it to watch the leaping flames. The wind struck against
the old house, rattling windows and screaming angrily around the
gables. Through the windows, which looked westward, the boy could see
inky clouds rolling above the water and watch the giant waves pounding
across Old Man Ledge.

“Gosh, I hope ev’ybody’s in!”

Even as he spoke Pettishall’s eyes were caught by a black speck which
showed for a moment on the crest of a wave, then sank from sight. When
it appeared again the speck was farther out. It was some time before it
rose again, and then the young fisherman’s experienced eyes told him
something was wrong. No one would dare go near Old Man Ledge in such a
storm. He looked again, then hurried out of the room. A moment later he
was running down toward the dock, struggling into a sweater as he ran.
By the time he reached his boat, started the engine, and headed out
toward sea, the storm had burst in full fury.

Yielding to the furious onset of wind and sea, his boat checked, then
came up stanchly to its work, water and spray streaming from the canvas
covering, rising and plunging while the engine coughed convulsively.
Pettishall bent over the engine, nursing it with care against the
onslaughts of flying spray while he guided, almost instinctively, the
desperate battle his boat was making. Twice only did he catch sight
of the helpless craft which was his goal and each time his heart came
up into his throat sickeningly, for it seemed that no power on earth
could snatch it away from the threatening reef. Still he urged his boat
on, confident in its strength, in the power of the engine choking and
coughing at its labor.

A third time the drifting boat rose. “Will Ellery!” the boy gasped in
astonishment, but the wind caught up the words and seemed to drive
them back into his mouth. Now he was near it! He swung his own boat
out in a wide circle, rope coiled in his hand ready to throw. A figure
in oilskins scrambled to its feet and called something which he could
not hear. His spray-blinded eyes tried to measure the distance between
the boats. He threw the rope, only to see it fall short in the boiling
water.

No one but a fisherman, born and bred to the world-old cruelty of
the sea, could have coaxed his boat once more near the disabled one,
fighting inch by inch nearer to the reef, the roar of its waters
beating in his ears and the driven spray striking against his face like
flying needles. Only a fisherman, fighting desperately for the life
of another, would have dared swing his boat in until for one ghastly
moment it stood poised on the crest of a giant wave, directly above the
one which wallowed helplessly in the trough beneath. It slipped, clung
to the wall of water for the eternity of a second, then plunged, barely
missing the other. In the moment he shot past, Pettishall flung the
rope outward. As it was caught and made fast he saw the girl’s white
face and knew who it was he had come out to rescue.

Blinding torrents of rain had begun to fall, drawing a swirling white
curtain across the water. Presently the rain would cease and the sea
grow calm, but there could be still no question of rounding the Head.
He would have to take Emily ashore with him instead of bringing her
home.

Towing the crippled boat as far back of him as the length of his
painter permitted, Pettishall at last gained shelter. After making his
own boat fast to its mooring he drew in the other.

Emily looked up and made a brave attempt to smile. Glancing sharply at
her blue lips and haggard face, the boy swept her into his arms and put
her down in the dory.

“Hev ye ashore in a minute.” Swiftly he moored the second boat and then
dropped into the dory with her. When they reached the dock he asked
anxiously, “S’pose ye kin go up the ladder?”

“Sure I kin.” She stood up, swayed, and would have fallen had he not
caught her.

“I kin walk now,” she told him when he had climbed with her to the
dock, and went slowly beside him along the path to the house.

In the living room the fire still burned. Orin threw an armful of wood
on it.

“Set up here close an’ git yerself good an’ warm,” he said. “Maw left
a dress here the day she come over ter clean fer me. I’ll fetch it fer
ye.”

When he returned a second time, after leaving oilskins and seaboots in
the kitchen, Emily looked up and smiled.

“I’m a’ right now,” she told him. “I wuz jes’--jes’ kinder upset.”

“Yes,” he returned grimly, “sh’dn’t wonder ef ye wuz. What wuz ye doin’
out in ’at boa-at? Ye might ’a’ been--ef I hedn’t happened ter see
ye--” The words stuck in his throat.

“I’d ’a’ been drownded,” she said soberly, “ef ye hedn’t come out. I’d
’a’ struck the ledge in no time. I wuz comin’ here,” she explained
simply. “I hed ter see ye.”

“Comin’ ter see me?” he echoed incredulously. “Comin’ here?”

She nodded. “I hed somethin’ ter tell ye--somethin’ ’at made me want
ter git here fast ez ever I c’d. Set down here by me. I kin tell it
plainer ef ye do.” She nestled her cold fingers in his.

“It’s what Grammy Tagel tol’ me,” she began, “’bout this house an’
the grave out yan an’ how they happened ter be. She wuz only a young
’un when it happened, but she says ’at she minds the awful storm an’
hearin’ folks tell ’bout how Captain Beath’s vessel wuz wrecked on Ol’
Man Ledge an’ nobody saved, only jes’ him. Seven men in the crew an’
only him saved, an’ he wouldn’t ’a’ been ef it hedn’t been fer one uv
the men. Him an’ Captain Beath hed gone ter school tergether an’ they’d
allus been friends, Grammy says.

“They wuz hangin’ onto the dory, jes’ the two uv ’em. The vessel was
bustin’ up an’ they wa’n’t no trace uv the other men. Twict Captain
Beath wuz washed off, but the other feller got him both times an’
fetched him up. The las’ time he says, ‘Ye got ter hang onto the
plug-strap. It’s yer turn,’ he says, but Captain Beath allus said
arterwards ’at it wuzn’t his turn.

“Grammy says ’at when the captain come ter hisself he wuz layin’ on the
beach here. The storm wuz over an’ the sea wuz all shinin’ an’ blue.
He got up onto his feet an’ called fer his friend an’ then went ’round
lookin’ fer him, but they wa’n’t nobody else thar--only the shinin’
water an’ the white beach an’ the tide comin’ in. They never found no
sign uv the other feller, never--”

“The other feller,” Orin asked in a hushed voice, “who wuz he?”

“Arter a while the captain built him a house here, so’s he c’d allus
see the place whar him an’ his friend wuz tergether fer the las’ time.
Grammy says ’at when folks made him see ’at his friend hadn’t been
saved it wuz then he put up the gravestun--kinder so’s they c’d be
tergether like they’d allus been. He uster tend it an’ put flowers on
it an’ got inter the habit uv settin’ out thar an’ talkin’.

“They wa’n’t never nothin’ in the grave, nothin’! Grammy says ’at’s
the way things often is--’at folks makes trouble an’ sorrer fer
tharselves an’ fer others over things ’at wa’n’t never thar in the fust
place--like--like I done--” The words were lost in a passion of tears.

The boy swept her into his arms, murmuring broken words: “It’s a’
right! They wa’n’t never nothin’ wrong, Em’ly. It’s a’right!”

Emily stood up at length, wiping the tears from her eyes. “Look,” she
said, “the storm’s breakin’.”

The rain, which had been pattering steadily on the old roof, had
ceased. A broad band of sunlight streamed through the western window,
flooding across the quiet old room like a benediction.

“Come on,” the girl said in a low voice, “it’ll be a good time arter
the rain ter pull weeds. We got ter git all the weeds ’way f’om ’round
the grave. I’m glad they’s lots uv lilies still so’s I kin trim it up
nice. Arter a while they’ll be bayberry an’ maple leaves fer me ter put
on it--an’ in winter they’ll be pine.”


FOOTNOTES:

     [15] Copyright, 1925, by The Pictorial Review Company.
          Copyright, 1926, by May Stanley.




                             SIX DOLLARS[16]

                         By WILBUR DANIEL STEELE

                      (From _The Pictorial Review_)


When Tansy Snow was a young man of eighteen or nineteen he went one
night to the Stone Fold. The Stone Fold is an islet lying about two
miles to the southeast of us. There is a house on it built of stones,
and a sheep-shelter, and toward the southern end three thorn trees.

Tansy took his father’s skiff and steered straight through the shoals
that lie that way, guided by the lamp in the garret of the house.
Donna, who had been in town with her father two days before, told him
she would put it there when the old man was asleep and the dogs shut up.

Donna Salisbury wasn’t pretty. And she would have been better for a
mother’s care; better to look at. As you’d expect, living with only a
shepherd father, her clothes were heavy, stout things, fitted mostly
by guess, and none too clean, and her hair was thick and untended, and
the color of her father’s sheep. But she was strong, stronger than a
boy, and if her face had a dull look, there was something behind the
dullness that would make a fellow stop to look again, especially when
stars were bright enough to cast shadows among the rocks and the gray
grass.

Tansy couldn’t understand why he should want to have anything to do
with her. He’d been to the Academy and now he had a position in the
new bank; he had to wear decent clothes every day, clean collars, and
polished boots; it went deeper than that: he had every day to be a
decent _man_ and wear a clean conscience; otherwise the pointing finger
of the banking business would find him out--bound to--in the long run
of a man’s life.

He had been to the Stone Fold three times, steering by the light.
This time he was coming simply to say he wasn’t coming. It would be
awkward telling the girl. For a day and a night he had been busy trying
to think up something humane, but at the same time final. Finished.
Chopped off.

He hadn’t guessed how awkward it would be, after all. They couldn’t
talk there on the beach on account of the dogs; they had to go along a
way. Occasional clouds, great fluffs of things, sailed over the sky,
and in the dark when they covered the stars Donna led him, taking his
fingers in her strong, dull, warm, eager hand.

He would have said it at the first turn of the shore, but the surf on
the bar there was too loud; he didn’t want to shout. He would have said
it when they started inland toward the thorn-trees, but now they had
got into the wind, the full weight of the wind that came in from the
open sea and bore the great clouds among the stars and made a living
sound among the grasses. He would have said it under the thorn tree,
but under the thorn tree was Donna.

It was half-past two when he left the island, and he hadn’t said it
yet. What he _had_ said he could hardly remember. Sometimes words,
fragments of sentences, promises, will come from a man’s mouth as if it
were some one else speaking: things he doesn’t mean at all.

He pushed the skiff off the sand, holding it by the painter.

“When’ll you be again?” she whispered.

Now was the time to tell her. She might have seen how pale he was;
might have helped him by saying something. But she was a dumb young
thing and she hadn’t a word. Of a sudden he reached into his pocket and
pulled out the money he had there and thrust it into her hands.

She was a dumb one, and she couldn’t make it out.

“What’s this?”

“I want you should buy yourself some present or other.”

“Huh?”

The dogs in the sheepfold began to bark. Tansy jumped into the skiff
and pushed off, leaving Donna to stand there, dumber than ever.

He had a fair wind back and put up the sail.

It was six dollars he had given her, a lot of money, the whole of his
first week’s wages. There were things he could have bought with that:
a new tire for his bicycle, and a Young People’s Union pin to give
Elsie Baker on her birthday. But it was all right. Better to start off
clear--not a debt outstanding--no matter what the cost might be.

Even yet, though, he didn’t feel quite right. When he got home and up
to his room he had three hours to sleep, but he couldn’t sleep. He was
disgusted with himself. His memory reviewed the night with shame and
loathing. He saw the path down which he had started, and even if he had
got out of it now, it was disgusting to remember.

All next day he felt drugged and haggard. He made mistakes with
figures, so that Mr. Matheson had to speak to him. But what was it?
He’d paid, hadn’t he? Squared up? Given everything he had to the girl?

Yes, but how about the Lord God? Slowly, as the day went by, he saw
this. You can’t pay God with money.

There was a sociable at Center Church that night. He had asked to see
Elsie Baker home. He looked so ill at supper time that his mother
advised him to stay in. To her surprise he acquiesced without trouble.
He went upstairs. When he was half undressed for bed, however, he
couldn’t do it. Getting dressed again, he stole out the back way and
went and stood behind a tree near the church and watched the people
going in.

The windows were bright and there were sounds of a good time, a hymn,
then after a decent interval laughter and runnings about, games. Tansy
walked across the street and stood at the steps.

He had given the girl everything he had. Can you give more than you
have? And, anyway, any girl that would do that!

Yes, yes; but how about the Lord God?

He went around to the wagon-shed, and in the dark there he fell on
his knees. “O, Heavenly Father, I’ve walked in evil; I’ve committed a
grievous sin; I beg Thee to forgive me in Thy mercy. I repent. O God, I
repent; I do, I do, honestly! Honestly, God, honestly----”

In the church they were singing “My Country, ’Tis of Thee.”

Tansy got up and brushed off his knees. His weariness was gone, like a
heavy coat he might have taken off and left there in the shed. In its
place there was a sense of security and well-being, such as comes after
a bath at the end of a sweaty day. He slipped back to his room and put
on his blacks, and, coming down the front way, he said he thought he
would go to the sociable. There was no turning him.

Actually he didn’t go in, but waited on the steps. There was something
about his feelings that would no more have mixed with the romping and
the din than oil will mix with water. Yet it was marvelous just to sit
apart and listen to it, especially when the organ struck into some
familiar air, and all sang, soprano and alto, tenor and bass. It was
marvelous to be whiter than snow, one with God, a little child.

He saw Elsie home, after all. It was only a couple of hundred yards,
down the shore street and up London Lane, but he would never forget it.
It was the first time he’d known that love and reverence could be one
and the same thing. Earthly love and religious reverence.

Elsie was so pretty, so enchanting in ribbons and laces, so pure,
as pure as a flower on which God’s sun shines and God’s rain falls
unfailing, as if He were saying in the sun and rain: “Of such is the
portion of them that think none but healthy thoughts and dream none but
wholesome dreams; yea, even to the third and the fourth generation.”

Elsie’s great-grandfather it was who gave the land for the Atheneum.
Her grandfather rescued the missionaries in Paul Straits, and founded
the “Light in Darkness.” Her father and mother were in the forefront of
everything for decency and right living, and they were well-to-do.

The forefathers of that girl on the Stone Fold--what could they have
been? By what steps of wrong thinking, of evil impulses given way to
and higher impulses denied, must that strain have come down?

But now, because something had been changed in him, Tansy could think
of her with nothing but pity.

In London Lane the lights, shining up under the willows, made it seem
the nave of some dim cathedral, in which a boy and a girl walked
together. And then Elsie was up on her stoop and he stood at the foot
of the steps.

“W-e-l-l?” she said. The light from the two long panes flanking the
door fell softly on either side of her figure.

“Elsie,” he said, “excepting for my father and mother there’s nobody in
the world but you amounts to _that_, with me.”

“What _are_ you saying, you silly?”

She came back down the steps to read the silly’s eyes. She was so good
she didn’t guess the risk. He could have grabbed her and kissed her.

But not he; not now! He kept his hands behind him.

“Elsie, you wait and see. Some day I shall be the biggest man in this
town.” It wasn’t like boasting. “For your sake,” he might have said.

He marveled as he walked homeward. On one side there were loveliness,
niceness, world’s goods; on the other unloveliness, a hard living, the
scorn of friends. Yet did God ask him to choose the stony way? By a
miracle, no. God asked him to choose the way it would have been the
part of even the worldly-wise to choose.

Marveling so, as he crossed above the White Boys’ place he spied a
pin-prick of light away out beyond the Point. It was as though it
rested on the low neck of sand, a fallen star.

“_Tonight?_” He felt angry. “She’s got her cheek, I must say!”

On impulse he went down to his father’s wharf, cast off the skiff’s
painter, and got in. He would finish _that_ off. He would tell Donna
what was what. Straight from the shoulder! Then, before he had got the
oars out, he realized that it was only the devil tempting him, weaving
any arguments at all, just to get him out there to the Stone Fold again.

He made the boat fast and went home. His parents were still up. He
shook his father’s hand and kissed his mother on the brow. She eyed him
with a knowing little smile. “Been seeing Elsie Baker home?”

Tansy stood with his jaw out.

“I’ve made a decision to-night,” he said. “Some day I shall be the
biggest man in this town.”

He married Elsie Baker on the day he was made assistant cashier at the
bank. Within three months he was cashier.

People trusted him. “No need to count your money when it’s Tansy passes
it out of the till.” His word was as good as a bond; better, for bonds
can be lost or burned or stolen.

Old man Baker bought the Dow residence in the Brick Walk, had it
renovated, and gave it to the couple as a wedding-present. Nothing
could have been fitter. It was the smallest of the big houses built at
the height of the California days, brick for walls, slate for roofing,
and a wrought-iron grill around the turf-plot. Four-square with the
street, a house of strength and dignity. It was not too large, and
that was fit, too. In the great-grandfather’s family there were eleven
children; in the grandfather’s, fourteen; in the father’s, three. Elsie
herself had none.

It was a town house, pure and simple; the Dows had always been
shorefolks, lawyers and doctors and the like. From the windows of the
guest-chamber upstairs, full of leafy boughs and neighboring gables,
you might have been a thousand miles from the nearest salt; the
sewing-room was the same, and so was the west-chamber, that had always
been known as “the children’s room.” Yet it is a hard thing to find a
house in Urkey without some peep of the water; even at Gramma Pilot’s,
about as thoroughly shut in as any in town, you’ve but to climb to the
garret to get a sight of blue under the rod of the drug-store chimney.
We may wear Brockton shoes, but we’re a web-footed race for all that.

And so it was from the “used chamber” in the new Snow home.

The first time they slept there after their wedding-tour to Boston
Elsie awoke in the middle of the night. For a moment she couldn’t say
why. It was too queer. She didn’t stir; simply lay there trying to
think what it was could be wrong. It wasn’t for instants that she
recollected where she was, that she was married, that her husband was
there beside her. She slid a hand over his pillow to touch his head.
There was no head to touch. She was so startled she didn’t know what
to do or think. She went cold. Then, of course, when she began to paw
around, her hand found Tansy’s back. He was sitting up in bed; that was
all.

“What _is_ the _matter_?” she demanded, she was so upset.

“Nothing. Why, nothing at all.” And he lay back on the pillow.

But by and by, when he thought her asleep, he was up again, on an
elbow, looking at the window over the foot of the bed. Like burglars.

You know the feeling of that. Up went Elsie without a word, staring
at that window too. And there was nothing there. Nothing but the rear
corner of Center Church, one side, and the corner of the Nickerson
house, the other, and their one outlook on the harbor in the slit
between. By day there would have been a bit of the harbor, a segment
of the Point, and out to sea. Now there was nothing but the spark of
a chance light; it might have been at the masthead of some vessel at
anchor; it was too low for a star.

She was provoked. “What _are_ you _gawping_ at?”

“Nothing. Why, nothing in the world. What makes you think I----”

“Is it that light?”

“Wha--what light?”

“Well, I’m all afidget now.”

He lay back and comforted her. They were young.

Next morning, at the chamber-work, Elsie made a discovery.

“You remember that light last night, Tansy?” she laughed at
supper-time. “Well, ’twas nothing but old Cabe Sal’sbury’s light in his
house over to the Stone Fold; you can see how it ranges in daylight.
Must be some one sick.”

“Or else Cabe’s a great student,” she modified it when, at bedtime, she
saw the lamp burning again in the window on the Stone Fold.

“What you say to closing those blinds?” Tansy suggested. “I vow there’s
a tang in the air to-night.”

No, Elsie wouldn’t listen to that.

“The best doctors nowadays say all the air you can have in your bedroom
is none too much, even in winter-time. I’d suffocate.”

It was the following day that Tansy began to seem restless. To begin
with, he didn’t see where they were going to expect much company,
overnight, all their friends being local people, with houses of their
own. So why didn’t they shift into the front chamber, which was
roomier, with two closets; and as for air, certainly there was as much
air coming up the Brick Walk as there was in the church back yard.

“My _spare_ chamber?” was all Elsie could gasp.

“Or even the west chamber----”

“The _children’s_ room?”

Elsie went straight to her mother about it. Her mother smiled. Phidela
Baker had been a young woman once, with a new young husband and a new
house of her own. “They’re all the same; Providence made ’em so. Ever
notice a dog that’s made up his mind to lie down in a certain spot?
Made up or no, he’s got to wander and fidget a dozen times around it
first, before he settles down. Don’t you take on.”

“But over and above everything,” was the parting advice, “don’t you
start out by humoring him too much. Be cheery, but put your foot down.”

So when Elsie found Tansy at work one of those days, surreptitiously,
trying to get the bureau switched for the bed, and the carpet in a
tangle with it, she put her foot down. He looked foolish to be caught
so. His face got redder and redder.

“Light shines in my eyes. That is--in the mornings.”

“Can you _imagine_ how this room would _look_?” She demolished him
ruthlessly, but all the while with a smile.

That smile of Elsie Snow’s grew famous. No matter if this went bad and
that worse, Tansy Snow’s wife always had a smile, always seemed to
be saying, like her mother before her: “Don’t you take on; God will
provide.”

Her energy was amazing and fruitful. Once she was married and settled
down, and since she had no children to stop her, she was able to be a
power for good. She was a treasure for Tansy; she saved his pennies;
where another in her place might have got trained help from the
mainland she did with young girls to come in, carried the bulk of the
house herself, and never looked the worse for it.

As she matured she rounded out amazingly; folks wouldn’t have believed
it, from the slip of a girl she had been. But no matter how full her
hands were, they were never too full to spare a finger where help was
needed. In the church, in the Dorcases, in the “Light in Darkness,” in
the Town Farm Association, at Easter, Thanksgiving, Memorial Day, the
word came to be: “See Elsie Snow; she’ll manage.”

There were plenty to say that her capacity for managing didn’t go for
nothing in Tansy’s affairs. Certainly, once, when he wouldn’t have
foreclosed on Mrs. Hemans’s store--which was going to be a valuable
property as soon as the fish-freezer was built--certainly then it was
his wife showed the common sense of the two, asking him plainly: “Which
do you figure you owe the most to, Sarah Hemans or the men and women
and children that’ve got their all in your bank?”

Yet too much may have been made of that. Tansy was honest, and honesty
goes a long way. When he made a statement across his desk in the
bank-block--it mattered not whether it was to the highest or the
humblest--that statement held. And yet, again, in another way, where
would he have been if it hadn’t been for her? People would really have
forgotten that he was alive.

Tansy had turned out a silent and unsociable man. He never went to the
post-office; his mail came to the bank. From there home he took the
back way; that was about the only place, except church, you’d ever see
him, and then half the time he wouldn’t see you, walking as he did with
his eyes on the ground, studying.

A silent man is a wise one: that’s common knowledge. Tansy ought to
have been Selectman. Yet he never was. It hurt Elsie. Fall after fall,
as town meeting came and passed, and somehow or other Tansy’s name
wasn’t mentioned, it got deeper and deeper under her skin. Of course
nobody ever knew. It wasn’t anything you could say anything about. But
it was bitter when she recollected the young Tansy standing at the
bottom of the steps and vowing: “Some day I shall be the biggest man in
this town.”

She never mentioned it directly to her husband. The nearest she came
was when she would plague him: “Why _don’t_ you see more of folks? I
declare, I can’t make you out. What good does it do going to church if
you don’t take a hand in any of the activities? Or in town affairs?
See here now, So-and-so and So-and-so are coming in after supper about
the cake-sale, and I want you to put on your blacks and stay down
awhile--and talk. ’Twouldn’t harm you to crack a joke, even. Be cheery!”

Tansy would change his collar and put on his blacks. He never crossed
his wife; never put _his_ foot down. Never but once. That was when
Elsie, perceiving at last that there was to be no one for the
“children’s room,” and moved by something too vague to say, suggested
they might be more comfortable in the west chamber, after all, as he
himself had said. It was the first time she had ever heard him speak as
he did. “We’ll stay where we are.” And they had stayed.

But so he would freshen up after supper and come down as she bade
him and sit, absent of eye and mind, in a corner of the cake-sale
conference. Ten minutes. Half an hour. Then presently, as things warmed
up, like dew under the heightening sun, he would be found to be not
there. “Studying,” his wife would have to tell them with a sigh. “What
can a body do with a man whose work is never done? Up there in the
dark, from now to bedtime, like as not, studying, studying. You’d never
guess. But I declare if some folks were to work the amount Tansy Snow
does, and take on so blessed little about it-- Well, well. And now,
who’s it arranged shall get the paper for the streamers and festoons?”

So Tansy would sit there, studying. All alone in the “used chamber,”
in the dark, in his shirt-sleeves, in the rocker. Studying, studying.

First, in the early days, he thought it was a sin. It seemed to him
that it must be Satan himself who was putting that lamp in Donna’s
garret on the Stone Fold, night after night after night, to mock him,
around the very corner of the church of God, and beckon him from the
very pillow where he lay beside his wife.

At first he was angry. “The cheek of her!” She knew he was married,
must know it; she had been in town with her father many times; he
had seen their boat. Yes, he had seen _her_--at a distance. Angry
and scared. Anything to escape that ray that poisoned his thoughts,
his dreams! Any room, any window, but that! Angry, scared, and
_fascinated_! That was the worst. Fascinated, so that it ate a hole
in the fabric of his honesty, like a moth-hole, tiny enough to escape
notice, but big enough to let a lie through.

“I’ve to step upstairs and get my slippers, wife dear.”

“You’re tired, Tansy; let me go.”

“No, no, you stay by the fire and read; I’ll be but a moment, dear.”

For a while he was ashamed of himself. He ran to the stairs and started
down if he heard Elsie coming. He felt he ought to make it up to her
somehow, pet her, show himself ten times more fervent than it was in
his nature to be. But that couldn’t last. Nothing that’s not in a man’s
nature can last. What _is_ in his nature will out.

It’s in the nature of islanders to be weather-vanes. As the weather
goes, so do our spirits. There’s none that hasn’t, in some one of his
generations, had a ship. So, even though her husband was a confirmed
shore body, Elsie never thought it anything out of the way that he
should be weather-tender, and show it by fidgeting and prowling on
nights when the fog came and the wind was in the east.

Through the spring and summer of their first year there was prevailing
fair weather, and only rarely a night like that--a blessed one (at
first) when the star on the Stone Fold was blotted out--a torment
(later on) when Tansy was upstairs as much as down, stealing peeps,
dreading, hoping. In September, though, there came a real spell, five
days of it as thick as a hat. In the night of the fourth a lobsterman
named Antony Coral claimed to have seen Mr. Snow of the bank in a dory
in Chalk Ground Slough, toward the Stone Fold--was near to running into
him--fact!

If a tale like that had been let go far it might have harmed a man in
Snow’s position. But it didn’t go far. Before his mates at the dock had
got through guying the credulous “Portugee,” he began to wonder if he
hadn’t been asleep at his oars, after all, and dreaming dreams, and he
never brought it up again.

One thing about that night is certain, however: Tansy wasn’t at home.
Another thing is certain: it was he that was rowing the dory in Chalk
Ground Slough, toward the Stone Fold. And it wasn’t above five minutes
after he had avoided collision with Coral’s lobster-boat that, close
aboard the island beach, he made out finally a disk of warm light the
size of a penny, up in that part of the vapors where Donna’s garret
window ought to be.

That settled it. That made it another thing. Had it been no more than
spite, Donna wouldn’t have wasted oil and wick in weather that would
smother the spark in twenty rods, and never a chance in God’s world
for Tansy to see and suffer. It was something in _her_ made her do it,
then; like an act in some ritual of memory. Turning his boat around, he
rowed for home. What he had found out filled him with a sense of pity.
No, not pity. There was solemnity, tragedy in it, but it wasn’t pity,
nor sorrow.

After that he began to lose his feeling of shame when he made excuses
to slip away upstairs, till he made them no more. He no longer stole
peeps from the window; he sat there brazenly, “studying.” As time
went by, if the good people gathered in Elsie’s parlor--if they could
have seen him at the moment of his escape upstairs--they would never
have known him for Tansy Snow. His face was contorted. He shook his
fist. “----the lot of you, you gabbling, gossiping little parcel of
busybodies, you and your holy little schemes, your little brains! The
devil! What claim have you on _me_?”

But when he had reached the bedroom and found the rocker and sat down
with his back to the bedpost and his sock-feet on the window-sill,
little by little the lines would vanish from his face. Little by
little as he watched the fallen star, or thought of it shining in
secret there, he forgot to hear the busy voices below; he heard the
wind running in gray grasses and the living sound of breakers on
far-strewn reefs and the dry rustle of leaves in a thorn tree. And
what had happened was that he was no longer surrounded by walls and
gables and hemmed in by the thoughts and needs and elbows of hundreds
of industrious little two-legged vegetables; the walls had melted, his
horizon was the horizon of dark ocean, and he walked in space.

And a girl walked with him--no, a woman--no (as time passed), more than
a woman, a kind of goddess, sea-begot, earth-born, the soil of the
mother still carelessly on her, and she the stronger for it, and slow,
as the tides as slow, and generous, as the earth is generous with the
seeds of life, and brooding calm as the sky is, which, knowing nothing,
holds within itself all the generations of them that know all. Her hair
was thick and tangled, because the grass grows so; eyes heavy, because
they looked at things far off; hands large, because the blood that fed
them was warm; and her words little words, because only little words
can stay in the wind that blows from the caverns among the stars.

“The gray ewe dropped twins in that brush-patch. That’s a good ewe.”

And Tansy could imagine his own words as simple. “Yes, a good ewe.”

“I like the feel of the wind, like tonight; there’s rain to come. I
like it to blow under my hair, the same as kisses. I love kisses.”

“I love to kiss you. I love to be with you with nothing but water
roundabout and nothing but stars above, and all on earth asleep, hushed
up.”

“They’re awake in China, though, for the world’s round like a ball.”

“Most folks know the world’s round, yet they think it’s flat. I love
that in you, Donna; you can _feel_ it, you can _see_ it being round
like a ball. And you can see the stars being round like balls as big as
suns, to shine hot on other worlds where there were sheep and people
living and having twins and dead under the grass a million centuries
before Adam and Eve--and never a thought in all their races whether it
should be a thousand or twelve hundred on the Dee Nickerson house, or
something useful like aprons or something tasty like doilies at the
Dorcas meeting next Tuesday week. You see it. You feel it.”

“Yes, Tansy, I see it. I feel it.”

“You and I. I love you. And here we are at the tree.”

Nor could he any longer, caught in the net of fantasy, recognize the
thing as sin. _There’s_ revenge for you. To have grown to be a man who
didn’t know right from wrong. Tansy, whose honesty was his strength!

After all, he wasn’t a man; he was two men. It was the other that
became president of the bank, director in both the new freezers, and
owner of considerable property in the town. No one knew his duplicity.
How was it possible? Certainly, after living with him ten years, his
wife didn’t know. Donna herself, who might have guessed, might have
wished, even Donna couldn’t _know_. He could assure himself there
was no one. So he had forgotten what had happened that night in the
wagon-shed behind the church (and almost under his window now). He had
forgotten God, who never forgets.

But God moves in a mysterious way. It was a mystery to all “what it
was bit Tansy” in his thirty-sixth year. There he was one week, a
bit stoop-shouldered perhaps, but wiry for all that and going his
way. Honest Tansy, who ought to have been Selectman--and why didn’t
_some_body ever put him up? And there he was the next week, and talk of
galloping consumption. Or Bright’s disease. Or what?

They couldn’t have got it out of him; he was too close of mouth. Nor
dig and delve as they would they couldn’t get it out of Mrs. Snow.
She didn’t know; that’s why. He sleeps poorly; that’s about all she
could say. He would toss, his head as restless on the pillow as if it
wore a crown of thorns. Once when he thought her asleep he got up and
went into the spare chamber. From the hall where she had stolen she
saw him with a candle staring at his own face in the bureau glass.
The night-puffed face, the thinning hair, the stooped shoulders--in
the mirrored eyes there was the look of a soul in hell, self-pity,
self-hate, self-mockery.

Elsie was worried in earnest. When, without warning, a day or so later,
he announced: “We’ll try the west room a spell for a change,” she was
quick to humor him. Yet it came to nothing. Before she had so much as a
bedsheet shifted, there he was back, bareheaded: “Let it be as ’twas.”

Here are the facts. Tansy oughtn’t to have gone near the docks. For
years he had kept clear of them, by instinct more than by reason. Now
the mysterious way God took was to make him careless. It was a bright
and innocent morning anyway; insurance was wanted on a big yawl; it’s
better to see a risk with your own eyes than to go by hearsay. (If you
can see the risk.)

Alongside the yawl three single-handers were lying, the men in them
sorting their last night’s catch; lusty, brawny young fellows, a
pleasure to the eye with their deep color and their flashing grins
(more pleasure to the eye than a banker in a night-shirt before a
looking-glass). And their voices, in the clear of the morning, were gay
and strong.

Five years later Tansy could have repeated every syllable of every word:

“Looks o’ that catch o’ yourn there, Eddie, you didn’t set no very
likely place last night, did ye?”

“Aw, leave Eddie be, Sam. Didn’t ye hear the terrible thing? Got a good
fare o’ haddock, Eddie did, only he had to heave the best part away.
Turn out to be moth-millers when he come to look. Whatcha make o’ that?”

“Laugh, you fellows; I like to hear ye. But if ye really want to know
who _’twas_ fishin’ the Stone Fold las’ night, don’t ask me; ask
Codhead Collins; he’s the boy’ll know.”

“All right, all right, don’t jump so. All reminded me was, I was
thinking I noted a new little face on the beach over there when I come
by the old girl’s last week. And a new batch o’ wash on the line.”

“Godfrey! How many’s that she’s got now?”

“Don’t ask me; I ain’t the only dory in the fleet.”

It wasn’t consumption; Tansy didn’t cough. Nor Bright’s disease; it
didn’t act that way. The doctor said it was just insomnia, and it came
from too much work. Human flesh can’t stand studying at a desk the
livelong day and then in a bedroom rocker half the night. He advised,
and Elsie insisted, that Tansy ease up, go off somewhere, and take a
holiday.

“No, I’ll just see it through,” was all Tansy would say.

When he said that morning: “We’ll try the west room a spell,” it was a
confession of rout. Once away from that window he might forget; that’s
how he figured it. He hadn’t yet got it through his head that God
never forgets. At the bank, who should be waiting to see him but two
of those trawlmen, Eddie and Sam. It was something about a loan; Tansy
hardly knew; the business was done mechanically; the whole sudden thing
_he_ saw was that he wasn’t to be let escape; that God had sent those
wind-browned lusty young fellows as a sign and reminder that by no
hiding of his eyes was he to be let forget. He faced it.

When the emissaries were gone he got down on his elbows on his desk
and looked at his conscience, and he saw that in all those years of
letting his imagination run to that island, instead of keeping it home
of nights where it belonged, he had been doing a sinful thing. Now for
atonement he was given a cross to bear. In the long run, unless he bore
it without flinching, the failure would find him out. It was then,
forgetting his hat, he ran home to Elsie with his “Let it be as ’twas.”

“As ’twas!” The irony! As though it could be any nearer to what it had
been than heaven is to hell.

He tried never to flinch. Shirt-sleeves and sock-feet, “as ’twas,” he
sat there whole evenings through. No longer did he stride across the
wind-blown grass with Donna by his side. He ran at a crouch under cover
of the brush-patches, peeping, spying. Or he lay hidden as near as he
dared to the thorn tree, holding his breath and listening--to youth.

Almost as bad as the jealousy was the shame. Beginning by boasting he
would be the biggest man in town, he had ended by being the least in a
shady brotherhood, the scummiest of the scum of the waterfront.

Sometimes he had to flinch a little; sometimes, revoking the image of
the goddess he had created, he would rail at them. And now his “_I was
the first!_” was the whine of a whip, and he had to grovel:

“Lord, when I have borne enough, in Thy mercy take it away.”

There came a time when it seemed it was to be taken away. Mercy’s
instrument was Austin Dow, the proprietor of the Seaside Lunch
that came with the steamer, along with other changes, when the old
packet-schooner gave up. More and more excursionists were coming for
the day’s sail from Gillyport, with an hour ashore at noon, and Dow
got to thinking he’d have a sign put on his roof, a big fellow, one
you could read from the harbor coming in, with “SHORE DINNERS OUR
SPECIALTY” in letters five feet high. And he wanted a license from the
town.

It came up in special meeting in January, and it made a stir. There
were forward-looking people who realized that times had changed, and
they spoke in favor. There were just as many against it, though not
quite so apt at saying why; anyway, it would be an eyesore to the
worshipers coming out of Center Church, that monstrosity on a roof
across the street. And then a man got up in the back of the hall and
asked permission to speak.

The man was Tansy Snow. If it had been George True, the town dummy,
folks wouldn’t have been struck so dead. And that was only the
beginning. From the first the thing that had made it look as though Dow
might get the vote was that it was the business men that were with him;
it was the sentimental old ladies (male and female) that were against.

And now to hear Banker Snow, the busiest business man of them all, the
dried-up human calculator, the man with no sentiment, no romance, no
imagination beyond set-down-five-and-carry-two--to see him standing
there like a born revivalist--and to hear him carrying on--diving back
into history and coming up again--his face running sweat and his eyes
as big as quarters with earnestness--reciting the beauty and dignity
and grandeur of our island metropolis--recalling the impressions of his
boyhood, the simple nobility of that shore-street sky-line, as great
epochs had builded it slowly--and then taking the proposed sign-board
as a symbol of all the ills the mainland suffers from, making bigness
an idol, bustle a religion, the dollar a god to trample them in the
dust--it was too much for the town meeting. When it came to a vote,
there wasn’t a voice for the lunchroom: Dow was too done up even to
lift his own.

No one was more amazed than Elsie Snow, or more thrilled. If Tansy
didn’t fathom what he had done, or what was to follow, she did. As she
took him out and home through the streets where people lingered she
held him by the arm, “the biggest man in town”; you couldn’t fool Elsie
Snow.

When they had undressed and she had blown out the light and gone
to lift the window, she stood for a moment dreaming down at Dow’s
lunchroom on the shore, bright in the moonlight in the bottom of the
crevice between the Nickerson house and the corner of the church,
and, “By gracious,” she mused, “it never till this instant occurred
to me, but it would’ve cut off half our one and only sea-view, that
monstrosity of his.”

No, there was one more amazed than Elsie.

Staring out through the moonlight, and through the darkness when the
moon had set, Tansy Snow was wondering:

“Why in the name of the Eternal did I do that?”

Elsie was right about consequences. The town waked up and rubbed its
eyes. Tansy Snow had pulled the wool over them for a couple of decades,
but he couldn’t do it any more. From the minute he sat down after his
speech in meeting there wasn’t a question in anybody’s mind but what
he’d be chosen Selectman the coming autumn, in place of John Matheson,
who was “getting through.” If he’d take it, that is.

What a question! As we used to say: “Will a duck swim?” And yet very
presently here was Elsie Snow going around with another kind of smile
and another and mysterious light in her eye. She was a wonder, Elsie
was.

How did she get wind of it? you’ll ask. But you must remember that,
what with being chairman of this, manager of that, and corresponding
secretary of the other, the banker’s wife had in her hands the ends of
more underground wires than any dozen in Urkey, and under-water wires
too, tapping the gossip of all the towns and precincts the length of
the Cape. And wise in politics, she knew that two and two, coming at
the right time and at all dramatic, are apt to make nearer forty than
four. And she knew that there is a tide in the affairs of men. And she
knew that it never rains but it pours.

She could hear them at Gillyport: “Well, they say Honest Tansy Snow
opened up his mouth at last, and the man’s a spellbinder; vow he is.”
And at Barnstable: “They knew him, and they knew he meant it; he ain’t
the kind to spout for spoutin’ sake, Banker Snow ain’t. And they do say
there was a good many noses blowed there toward the end.”

But Elsie knew more than that. Piecing it together in her astute mind,
from a hint here, an allusion there, a slip of somebody’s tongue or
pen, she knew a thing that only three men in the Congressional District
happened yet to know. And this was that “the party,” what with the
chill of old blood and the heat of bad blood, was secretly in a bad
way indeed; that it wanted a doctor, and wanted one quickly--with the
autumn elections coming forward, and a member of Congress to be sent to
Washington. No veteran; no silver-trumpeting old war-horse. No, a new
name, a fresh fame, a clean slate.

“And where, oh, where,” thought Elsie, “where will the lightning
strike?”

Selectman? Selectman of a village? That was why she smiled. Since
Barlow Atkins left Congress in 1884 people in Urkey had almost
forgotten that an islander could sit under the dome in Washington. “The
biggest man in this town.” She remembered the young Tansy standing up
straight in London Lane. Well, she’d see.

One afternoon in mid-July the Knights came over in the steamer _Senator
Bates_ for their annual “time,” a clambake at Blue Goat Cove in the
evening and the sail back home by moonlight later on. When they had
marched the length of the shore street behind their band and got a
start for the cove, they took half the population with them, but they
left three of their own number behind.

The sail was all right for these three, but they weren’t much on
clambakes. They’d rather loaf around the old town, looking at the
houses. Perhaps they were interested in architecture. Or perhaps it
was lightning-rods. They were Mr. Claude Byram of Gillyport, Captain
Charlie Slocum of Barnstable, and ex-Senator Bates himself, and they
were the three men in the district who knew what Elsie knew. As
they strolled they talked. They talked about Henry Poor, the young
lawyer in Provincetown, who, unheard of a year ago, had just won the
Province-land suit for the Commonwealth. They talked of the new man who
was making such a name for himself as head of the Highmarket Academy--a
scholar--no taint of politics there. And once or twice, lingering
near the end of the Brick Walk, “Well, here’s where _he_ lives,” they
temporized. “What do we say?”

But they couldn’t seem quite to say. They had to talk it all over
again. Six o’clock passed. They had a snack at Dow’s place, and then it
was seven, and then it was eight. Elsie Snow wasn’t the woman to wait
forever. It was in the drug store, where they had stopped for cigars,
that she brought them to earth.

“Captain Slocum, as I live! And _Mr._ Byram! And--_not_ Senator
_Bates_! Well, I declare, who’d have thought to find _you_ drifting
around our little town, and without a soul to manage for you? I give
you my word----”

She gave them her word it was an outrage, and that even if there wasn’t
a committee of welcome, there was a home that would be honored by their
presence, and a fresh lemon layer-cake, and a drop of rhubarb wine, put
down the year she and Tansy were married. And Tansy _would_ be tickled.

It seemed providential; seemed to help to clear their minds. When they
had arrived, most easily, most pleasantly, at the foot of the Snow
steps, they slackened pace and let their hostess go on in ahead.

She made it simple for them. “I’ll run on and see Tansy’s fit to be
looked at; he’s that much of a home body, he’s probably in slippers
now.”

“I guess, Mrs. Snow,” the Senator called after her, spokesman for the
three, “I guess you can tell Snow _we’ll_ be tickled to see _him_.”

All the woman could think, and that over and over, was, “This is the
greatest day in Urkey’s history.”

Tansy, hearing voices, was half-way upstairs. She bustled him up the
other half, the news on her tongue, but then it was too enormous to
tell.

“Get into your blacks, and _hurry_,” she bade him; “there’s company.”

As she turned and swept downstairs again to put the company at its ease
with ash-trays and cake and rhubarb wine, the chosen of fortune felt
along the wall for the chamber door; with a sigh. Why wouldn’t people
let him be?

Once inside, he started toward the window, of habit a quarter-century
old. Then he remembered he was to hurry. Company. Who? Why had there
been that note in her voice? Perhaps at last it was somebody about the
autumn meeting and the Selectmanship. Oh, Tansy knew. He never let on,
but he wasn’t a fool And he wanted it--as he’d never wanted anything.
Why? For the name? Yes, in a way. More than anything in life, he wanted
to be able to go to that window and throw back the taunt of that
leering eye of light.

“Yah! Take a look at me--the man that’s trusted above all others!
Selectman! The biggest man in this island and this town! You, and your
‘moth-millers,’ your dirty, filthy nobodies, look at me! Yah!”

But he had been told to hurry. In that funny way--hurry! It was the
Selectmanship! As good as done already. Because he had been an upright
citizen and an honest man. Here he was at the window, after all.

It wasn’t a “Yah!” It wasn’t a sound, nothing formed, just a formless
outlashing of a life that was tired in secret; secretly, prematurely
old. Then, as he looked again, he lifted a hand and drew it across his
eyes.

“Fog coming in. Won’t have much of a moonlight sail, that crowd.”

He removed his hand and stared. There was no fog. The sky was as clear
as glass and full of stars. He put his other hand on the bedpost. The
bedpost was solid, anyway.

“Good God! What’s--wh-what’s happened? What’s wrong?”

Elsie couldn’t keep them occupied forever, even with cake and rhubarb
wine. Minutes are minutes to such men. When fifteen had passed, and
Slocum had looked at his watch twice, she went to the stairs and
called. Then, laughing, “What would you do with such a man?” she
marched up to find him. The bedroom was dark, and he wasn’t there. She
went to the spare chamber, to the west chamber, down the back way to
the kitchen. She returned to their bedroom; he _must_ be there.

She felt on the bed, the chair; she stood staring out of the window.

She shut her eyes and opened them again. A curious uneasiness, having
nothing to do with the company downstairs, seemed to lay hold of her.

“Fog,” she said to herself.

She turned around. What was the matter with this room tonight? Why
was everything so--so--so wrong--so lost--so funny? She touched the
bedpost. It was solid enough. She glanced toward the window again.

She laughed. She saw what was wrong, and it was ridiculous. For two
dozen years, without knowing it, she had depended on seeing a light
there when the weather was clear. When it was thick, there was no
light; no light, it must be thick. And here it was clear, and no light.
Absurd, but it had given her the jumps.

That shows what habit is.

Rid of the spell, she remembered what she was about. Her lips whiter
and whiter with anger, running on frantic tip-toe, she searched the
house.

Coming through the parlor she was all cheer. “Tansy’ll be down
directly,” she promised them, and, slipping out of the door, she was
gone.

Time passed. Once or twice they heard a voice calling “Tansy! Tansy!”
off in the distance, among the houses and lanes.

They got to talking. “You can’t tell me this fellow Poor hasn’t made
a big impression, especially down-Cape.” “Yes, but he’s a lawyer, and
that means politician to lots of people. Now this man McDowell over at
the Academy----”

When Mrs. Snow reappeared it was awkward. They didn’t want to seem to
run, but there was a man Byram ought to see, and there was the boat.

They got out backward, Slocum saying: “We’re right sorry not to have
seen Snow,” and the old Senator adding a word of kindness: “The talk’s
been up our way that your husband’s slated for the next Selectman over
here. I’m glad of that; he ought to make a good one, from all I hear.”

Elsie stood staring at the closed door when they were gone.

“Selectman!” she whispered. “_Selectman!_”

All the poison of all the years came pouring out. “I’ll _see_ him
Selectman! I’d kill myself first! He shall stay a stick till the day of
his death, he shall. A dumb, stupid stick--stick-in-the-mud! _Ohhhh!_”

In the kitchen of the house on the Stone Fold they were playing pachisi
down on the floor. The board was an old one, held together with
court-plaster; most of the men were buttons, and there were only two
dice left. Despite these defects, however; despite the two youngest,
two babies, creeping in continually and grabbing and getting slapped;
and despite the paralytic old shepherd in the chair behind the towel
rack, who wanted attending to now and then--despite these handicaps
they played with a quiet concentration, watching each the moves of all
the others, alert for cheating, a gamin shrewdness in the eyes narrowed
under the forelocks of tangled hair. It was an old game with them; yet
tonight there was something new about it; as new as though it had been
another game altogether, or the same game transported to heaven, where
all is light.

“Better’n that old lantern!”

“Better’n two lanterns!”

“Better’n _ten_ lanterns!”

So, from time to time, between moves, carried away afresh by
realization, they joined and gloated.

“Better’n a _hundred_ lanterns!”

The dogs were barking outside. An old one from under the stove sniffed
toward the door, bristling. The players paid no attention, but the
grandfather began to screech at the top of his lungs: “Shan’t have it!
Shan’t! Ain’t nobody no decency? With _her_ there? Etta, you tell ’em
go way. It’s an unholy sin--comin’ round a night like tonight--that’s
what it is! Etta!”

“Shut your face!” Etta threw at him as, without haste, she got up from
the floor. She was a woman of twenty-odd, the mother of one of the
infants underfoot. “Remember, you, it’s my next move!” she threatened
the others; then again to the old man: “Won’t you shut up, f’ gracious
sake!” and finally to the door: “Well, well, ’tain’t locked, is it?
_Come in!_”

The door opened. Those on the floor sat up straight. Etta retreated a
step, taken aback to see a stranger.

“What d’y’ want?” she muttered.

The man kept standing there, staring at her; staring at her squat,
strong-muscled figure, her lowering face, her hair, thick and matted
about her head, the color of unwashed brown sheep. She didn’t like it.

“Who are ye, and what d’y’ want? Y’ dumb?”

But the old shepherd began to screech now: “_I_ know ’im! I seen ’im
many’s the time over to the village. I see ye, Mr. Snow. I know ye
well, Banker Snow. Well, I vow! Draw out a chair for Mr. Snow, Etta.
Florry! Frank! Scabby! What a parcel o’ dummies! Git a chair for Banker
Snow.”

“What d’y’ want?” Etta persisted, unmoved.

Snow lifted a hand and passed it down over his face, which looked drawn
and moist. Like a man talking in his sleep, he asked: “What’s wrong
with Donna?”

That seemed to loosen all tongues at once. The kitchen was as full of
voices, of a sudden, as it was of the yellow glare.

“Donna’s dead.”

“Donna’s in there; wanta see ’er?”

“Ma went sick and she got worse and died off.”

“Donna ain’t boss no longer, she ain’t.”

“We got the lamp down.”

“We gone and got the lamp on ’er now, for _all_ ’er.”

“At last we got the lamp.”

Snow seemed to see the lamp for the first time. Like a man walking in
his sleep he went to look at it. It was worth looking at. It stood on
its own stand, a good four feet high; its finely swelled reservoir
had variegated chasings of brass and nickel all over it; it had an
extra-size chimney without a nick, and two wicks, one within the other.
A lamp for any parlor in the world. All the parts that could be rubbed
were as bright as a new one in the store. It had been looked after,
like new; the price-tag, even, had never been taken off. It hung from
the stem of the regulator, and the mark was still legible on it amongst
the spotting of flies. Tansy read it.

“$6.”

Some folks have a God of Mercy. And some have a terrible God.


FOOTNOTES:

     [16] Copyright, 1925, by The Pictorial Review Company.
          Copyright, 1926, by Wilbur Daniel Steele.




                            THE HOME TOWN[17]

                            By MILTON WALDMAN

                       (From _The London Mercury_)


High, high up in the spire of a New York office building (higher
than the forty storeys which is the maximum that the foreigner’s
imagination, even when abetted by observation, seems able to compass)
sat a depressed and lonely little man. He was lonely because he was
alone, and unaccustomed to so being; his present occupation was to
discover why he was depressed.

The little man was a very important person. On the door by which one
entered one might read in reverse, “Powell, Prescot and Shipton,
Publicity and Advertising Engineers. Henry J. Powell, Pres.” Though
the letters appeared black through the frosted pane, on the other side
they were bright gold. If, after entering one looked over Mr. Powell’s
head through the window beyond, where the streets and roofs of New York
extended to the south, one saw a few of the things for which he was
celebrated. Not many hundred yards out of that window is the famous
_Lesson in Economy_, the masterpiece commissioned by the Bungalow
Savings and Trust Company. It is an animated electric sign, which at
night shows the reception of depositors’ money at a window of the bank,
its passage to a huge transparent safe wherein the piles of currency
and checks undergo a metamorphosis into bricks, lumber, bathtubs, and
shrubbery, and fly away to a garden spot in the suburbs to arrange
themselves into neat little bungalows of an exact pattern with rows of
neighbours of similar origin. At the conclusion of the performance,
which requires about three minutes, all lights go out save those in the
most recent bungalow, on the steps of which are seen a man, a woman, a
small boy and a dog, above the ruby caption “You can Do This Too!”

A quarter of a mile further on is visible the radiantly coloured
_tableau vivant_ of the Searchlight Stores, entitled _Nothing Too Good
for Milady_, which, around the charming figure of a modish young woman,
exhibits, in smaller pictures, the Searchlight’s myrmidons stalking
tigers, leopards and cobras’ skins in the jungles of India, ostriches’
feathers in the deserts of Africa, caterpillars’ skeins in a sleepy
garden in Japan; one beholds the pearl divers in the shimmering waters
of the Orient, and chained gangs of Kaffirs plucking diamonds out of
the obdurate rock in Rhodesia. But a few steps further, on the other
side of the street, is the striking _Don’t Be Miserable When Enjoying
Yourself_, which presents an invalid and her nurse contentedly reading
novels while being wafted over the worst of roads in a monotone motor,
whilst on a parallel and greatly superior road a competing car and its
occupants are being gradually disintegrated. The editor of a magazine
for which Mr. Powell had once written an autobiographical article
had presented his contributor as “The Monarch of the Upper Reaches
of American Cities,” a just, but inadequate tribute to his manifold
activities.

For Mr. Powell was more than a mere creator of striking advertisement
displays. He was, in his way, a philosopher, and in the modern sense
a poet as well. In the article referred to he expounds the philosophy
of publicity as it has never been done before. He demonstrates clearly
and succinctly that publicity, like all the best poetry, is a form of
self-expression; only the advertiser, instead of informing the reader
of the state of his private feelings, often an awkward affair to the
latter, or proclaiming the beauty of Nature’s handiwork, which the
public is well able to observe and judge for itself, reveals the merit
of the thing which his (the advertiser’s) creative urge, and perhaps
Fate, have set him to producing. Publicity thus redounds to the common
weal in two ways: by holding the advertiser to a high standard and
by elevating the taste of the public to a level which it could never
attain without the explanatory counsels of the expert makers of the
things the public required. For example, the manufacturer of rubber
heels, by illustrating to the pedestrian reader the advantages of his
conception, makes a promise, sets for himself an ideal which it is
both his duty and pleasure to live up to; while the pedestrian, if
not thus made aware of the maker’s ideal, would either be sapping his
vitality by continuing to bustle about on leather heels, or his purse,
by ignorantly satisfying himself with inferior rubber ones. The article
concludes:

    The world can’t _guess_ the work you’ve done,
      ’Tis _you_ must let it know,
    ’Twill give you then the prize you’ve won,
      And, giving it, will glow.

The photograph of the author, which accompanied the article was at
first sight disappointing. One anticipated that a man who had done big
things would keep his appearance in harmony with his achievements; but
instead of the burly shoulders, broad face, square jaw, thin lips and
aquiline nose which the reader expected to see, he was confronted with
the portrait of a round, stoop-shouldered little man, whose black hair
was brushed back from his forehead in Beethoven fashion, whose eyes
were deep-set and speculative rather than keen, and whose chin violated
all the canons by merely rounding off in a perfunctory way the boyish
contours of his cheeks. He wore a black coat of ministerial cut and a
flowing black tie. Yet, to those who knew him, Powell’s appearance was
the best possible index to his character. They were astounded by his
miracles, but stood in awe of his dreams.

Now, for the first time in forty years of activity, he felt lonely
and depressed. His success, achieved always in the company of men
and by dint of untiring effort, had hitherto left no room for either
emotion. There was always something to do, somebody to see, at best
and worst some pleasant creative vision to think about. But a week
since, business being dull, his associates had departed in a body and
gone their separate ways to observe the ritual of Old Home Week. This
latter, a ceremony springing jointly from native sentimentality and
respect for humble beginnings, requires that the men in the cities who
have made their way in the big world should retrace their steps to the
towns and villages which have given them birth and join in tribute to
its virtues. All the absent are welcome, but the occasion is dedicated
rather to the successful than to the prodigal sons.

So Prescot and Shipton and the younger partners, Wynn, Jacobson,
Bottinelli, Senkowsky, and the rest took leave, and now, five days
later, the head of the firm sat in his studio of gleaming mahogany,
leather and brass, perusing their exuberant accounts of the various
local festivities. Prescot wrote from a little desert village in the
Southwest of a Chamber of Commerce dinner in his honour, of a political
conference for the selection of a congressional candidate in which
his opinion was deferred to, of being asked to lead the subscription
towards a War Memorial in the public square. Wynn, in his best “copy”
manner, chronicled a round of rustic frolics in Minnesota. Bottinelli
sent him a clipping from a newspaper in a Southern California town,
which related the installation of a stained glass window in the church
where the young Italian had been christened and in which he now made
the dedicatory address. And so on, each in his turn contributing to
his chief’s forlorn sense of being out of it all. He had few friends
besides associates, and they were absent on similar missions, as
he knew from a week of solitary luncheons and dinners. It was a
dreadful thing, he reflected, for a man to have no interests outside
his profession. These others had something to carry them on, to look
forward to. It made life more complete, more harmonious, to have the
roots of one’s aspirations in one’s beginnings, to wish to honour one’s
past by means of one’s future.

He looked back and recalled the early years from which his manhood
had so completely divorced itself. Born in a village in southeastern
England, he had emigrated with his father, long since dead, to New
York. Many other images now intervened between himself and the one he
was trying to reconstruct, the dormant blur of red roofs and green
fields which was Edginden as he had last seen it. Gradually the focus
became clearer and he saw a valley and two intersecting roads which
wound their yellow lengths rapidly away over the surrounding hills and
disappeared. At their intersection was a gray church steeple, a few
shops clustered in two rows on the north-and-south road, some grey,
some yellow, some burnt red, a few timbered or brick houses more openly
spaced, then the fields beyond, with the white wall or tiled gable of a
farmhouse revealed through the trees--old, old trees, sycamores, tall
oaks, chestnuts in full white bloom; he wondered what an Old Home Week
would be like in Edginden.

He doubted that it would be a success. Very few of Edginden’s sons went
away. Those that did seldom came back, never for the purpose of paying
a tribute of sentiment to their birthplace. Besides, there was little
that Edginden wanted, very little indeed. It grumbled extensively,
but seemed only in need of those things which Providence alone could
supply. He tried to picture himself returning to join with other absent
ones in receiving welcome and admiration, in dispensing bounty of cheer
and money. He found that he could not even recall the faces of any
absent ones, or in fact of any one likely to be still alive. Of what
good----

He went to the window. Over the roofs and spires of New York he could
see the Atlantic glittering in the setting sun. A slim silvery object
was moving rapidly out into the bay, its ribbon of smoke settling
slowly down on the unruffled water behind it. He unconsciously put his
hands behind his back, in Napoleon fashion, and narrowed his eyes. It
was worth the trying, anyway, he decided; at least he knew that nothing
else would ease the new-born ache in his heart.

       *       *       *       *       *

London pleased and puzzled him. It gave him an impression, first, of
vast size; through mile upon mile of small brick houses, one just
like the other, the train raced to Waterloo Station--so many miles of
repetition; he felt as one does in a semi-dream, when time loses all
proportion; only his watch showed him that the row he was seeing at
any instant was an actual extension in space, not in his imagination,
of all the others he recalled seeing. The bustle of the station, huge
and ugly, the ceaseless, punctuated buzz of queer vocal inflections
that awoke old echoes, the enormous taxicab, more like a private
car, save for its dirt and decrepitude, and again rows of houses
as like as peas. It was endless--infinitely larger than New York,
with its variety and its immovable water boundaries. It was late at
night when he finished his dinner, and he was too tired to leave the
hotel for further investigation, but he fell asleep with the curious
reflection that all comparisons he had seen or heard of between New
York and London were the exact reverse of the truth ... the latter
was infinitely the greater in its mass of teeming life, but rough,
inchoate, not nearly so finished as the former.

Next day confirmed his impression. He sauntered about, examining
everything attentively, minutely, reconstructively, he might have
said, the while unconscious of the curious glances he attracted; the
broad black hat which he affected intensified the peculiar inward
concentration of his eyes and enhanced the contrast with the youthful,
indecisive curve of the lips and jaw above the negligé collar and
flowing black tie. What opportunities to remake this enormous London,
to shape this formless monster’s endless possibilities! The buildings
seemed stunted, totally inadequate to house the world-famous businesses
whose clumsy signs he saw on them. He found his London correspondents,
a firm of indisputable skill, importance and solvency, in a side
street, occupying a narrow house four storeys high, and entered by a
former servants’ doorway; its floors sagged, its stairways creaked, and
no amount of paint and electricity could raise it to his conception of
what was due to the business it housed. After long search he stumbled
by mere chance on the offices of a periodical with which he annually
spent thousands, to find its affairs placidly going on in a converted
stable in an old courtyard. The narrow streets offered, on a larger
scale, the tangle of horse, vehicle and pedestrian to be seen in any
American farm town overcrowded by market day. The electric signs of
Piccadilly Circus and Leicester Square which would have caused his
associates to guffaw, brought a frown to his forehead. So many people,
so much riches--and how carelessly employed.

Before long he began to wish that he could start at the beginning and
put some system into this amiable, haphazard metropolis. His desire
was extremely practical. He knew it would not do to take the whole
thing down and build it up again on carefully planned lines. That would
be too expensive, and he was aware that there might be prejudices
against so drastic a proceeding. He merely desired earnestly to use
in a proper manner the material now being so sinfully wasted. As an
instance, one couldn’t straighten the Thames, of course, useful as
that might be; but one could put to better purpose the many open
spaces of its bridge-heads to relieve their uninformative blackness at
night--although in this respect he saw immature efforts at improvement.
He wanted to knock out the dingy shop windows that prevailed
everywhere, even in the West End, and replace them with something
worthy of Fifth Avenue.

Even outside the question of rebuilding, on small scale or large,
Powell was pained by the neglect of opportunities that fairly shrieked
at him for recognition and adoption. To disregard them indicated either
lack of vision in the English, or downright sloth. Perhaps it was due
to the race’s well-known self-satisfaction. But what just a little
imagination could do. He recalled with what eagerness he had undertaken
the publicity for a New York restaurant which boasted seventy-five
years of active life. “The stock which conquered the West and fought
the Civil War found sustenance at this historic hostelry. Lincoln ate
here while on his arduous campaign for the Presidency; it was Grant’s
first stopping place after being banquetted in all the palaces of the
world. Three-quarters of a century’s experience in the polite art
of entertaining ensures you those amenities which, to the epicure,
are _sine qua non_ when dining out.” And here almost hourly he saw
restaurants scattered from Richmond to the City whose weatherbeaten
signs diffidently proclaimed three hundred years of uninterrupted
cookery. What could they not boast of in the way of association, of
rich material for justifiable _réclame_. Without doubt there were still
extant tables in those places under which Cromwell and Wellington
had put their boots, pegs on which plumed Cavalier and stiff Puritan
hats had hung side by side. A complacent smile lingered for a moment
as he recalled how neatly he had effected the sale of Schindler, the
antique dealer’s, two colonial chairs, in which Clay and Webster were
supposed to have sat while visiting a famous Concord wit. _The Seats of
the Mighty_ was the neat caption by which the attention of newspaper
readers was attracted to the photograph of the chairs convincingly
occupied by the shades of the departed statesmen, and within
twenty-four hours a millionaire had purchased them for ten thousand
dollars.

He made profound calculations on the revenue Westminster Abbey would
derive from the proper dissemination of facts regarding its peculiar
relation to the nation’s great dead; a quantity of judiciously
prepared, wisely distributed newspaper paragraphs illustrating in word
and picture the glory of _The Fane of Fame_, as he mentally entitled
it, would probably, in the course of ten years or so, enable it to
double its available space for coronations, etc. He wandered about the
Tower with a guide and a compatriot, and received the latter’s cordial
agreement to a suggestion that a special ’bus line from Charing Cross
would not only make the great monument more accessible, but would soon
pay for itself if the vehicles were made in the form of tumbrils (he
was not quite sure whether sixteenth-century England employed tumbrils,
but that could be adjusted later), and the driver and the conductor
attired, say, as Walter Raleigh and a headsman.

He left Victoria Station in the morning, having purchased half-a-dozen
magazines to beguile the journey, but as the train issued into open
country, which he had previously traversed in the dark, he forgot them
in an unexpected interest in the countryside. In a very few minutes
he had gained a more favourable impression of British advertising
capacities than a week in London had given him. The signs were, indeed,
fewer to the mile than in the best parts of the United States, but
they were undeniably on the increase. From a professional point of
view he found them sufficiently large and colourful, and on the whole
well designed as regards employment of space. His only criticism was
directed at their literary weakness. Here, for instance, was a blue
background, a red and white tin, and the legend “Buy Tucker’s Tinned
Spinach--it saves Time.” The alliteration was not bad, but the idea was
primitive, an archaism in advertising. Here, a mile further along,
was a merry Roundhead in a green coat offering the passer-by a glass
of liquid with the words “I drank it in 1650--it’s even better today.”
That was all right to begin with, he thought, his lips pursed like an
infant’s in doubt, but more could be made of it. He reflected a moment,
and smiled happily to himself as the vision of the board repainted
flashed on him:

    We distilled our first whisky in 1650.
    We have averaged 10,000 cases a year since.
    No customer of ours ever voted for Prohibition.

It was only a rough sketch, but it pleased him, and he looked forward
to his mission with content.

He arrived at Edginden before he was aware, and for a moment looked
about him in bewilderment. What had been an adventurous descent forty
years ago had passed unnoticed in the railway carriage, and the little
grey railroad station failed to fit into the picture. He passed down
the stone platform, noticing coloured posters inviting one to exotic
south coast watering places he had never heard of, engaged a lonely
Ford and in a quarter of an hour found himself at the Unicorn. As he
stepped out of the car the smoke of the railroad train was just fading
into the trees at the brow of the hill to the west. It vanished, and
Edginden seemed to appear from behind it unchanged from half-a-century
before. The Unicorn himself, imperceptibly faded, was pawing with his
forelegs one side of the shield-shaped sign from the top of which
his horn protruded. Through the low curtained bow-window was still
faintly visible the portrait of a rubicund gentleman in wig and red
coat; the only sounds might have been echoes from the past--chickens
flapping their wings in a nearby yard, the rumble of a distant cart,
the creak and drip of water being drawn from a well. Suddenly he heard
a winnowing machine; he lifted his head, detected a faint odour of
petrol, looked about inquiringly, and pushed the green door of the inn.

An ample, white-haired old lady gave him an unsmiling welcome, ignored
his request for a room with a bath, informed him that dinner would be
cold and served at half-past seven, and disappeared. A red-faced maid,
in black calico dress and white apron immediately issued from another
door and led the way up a flight of narrow, steep and noisy stairs.
Her long legs moved so rapidly that his short ones were unable to keep
up, and he only found his room by searching around until he perceived
his black patent leather bag on a bed almost as high as himself. The
maid had gone, but reappeared several moments later with a pitcher of
hot water, following her own knock so closely that he had no time to
recover the substantial portion of his garments he had already removed.

The window of his room gave on the hills; for a long time he stood
regarding their smooth rectangular patches of emerald and bronze; his
eye followed the road past fence and house and barn to the purple of
the crest; and a feeling of forlornness came over him compared to which
the lonesomeness of the week in New York was vague and feeble. It
being due merely to the absence of people he cared about, their return
sooner or later would have made it right. For this there was no cure;
it came out of the essential isolation in which all human beings live,
that terrible isolation against which men devise the most fantastic
activities, in order to avoid facing it. It was like his first illness
after his mother’s death, when his pains and fears seemed to mean
nothing to any one. He decided to go downstairs and have a drink with
the landlady.

The latter had no objection to his drinking, but declined to join him.
The bar was empty, it being outside of hours. He ordered a whisky and
soda, and drank it slowly; he detested the stuff and was a teetotaller
on principle, but lacked the courage to drink his favourite orange
squash in this environment. Besides he realised that the latter was not
an avenue to the sociability he craved.

“Nice place you have here,” he began.

“There’s worse,” she replied.

Not being in a position to debate this he began afresh.

“Do you get many Americans here?”

“Some. Are you an American?”

He warmed at this first indication of personal interest slight as it
was. “Yes--that is, I live there. As a matter of fact, I was born in
England.”

“Couldn’t tell it any more,” she commented, wiping up the counter and
significantly setting out a fresh glass. “Which part?”

He had braced himself for this moment. “Right here, in Edginden,” he
said, in the soft voice he reserved for the announcement of his most
startling projects.

This time she was clearly interested. She scrutinised him carefully and
said, “It’s queer I don’t remember you. I know everybody who has ever
lived in these parts this sixty years.”

“My father was George Powell.”

She reflected an instant. “I remember,” she finally declared. “He was
from Portsmouth and married Jacob Gunn’s girl; the old man set them up
in a shop there, but it didn’t go and they came here to live on the
farm. I remember when you were born; you were only a little fellow when
your mother died and your father took you off to America.” She mused a
moment. “Just fancy, you being Sarah Gunn’s boy.” In her abstraction
she returned the glass to its place on the shelf behind her.

Thus was Powell welcomed home. In a general way his reception elsewhere
resembled Mrs. Unicorn’s (This being the name by which he thought of
the landlady). Those that remembered him as a boy, like those that did
not, viewed him with curiosity as a tripper rather than as a son come
home. When he gave an impressive sum toward the restoration of the
church roof, which had for years bided this event, relying meantime on
the slender revenue derived from the solicitation of a torn sheet of
paper in the vestibule, he received a formal letter of thanks from a
committee and a shy, grateful handshake from the rector, but neither
mentioned his sentimental reason for the act, nor treated it as other
than the gift of a whimsically-minded rich man.

The end of a week found him as far removed from the end of his mission
as if he had never come. By now he had company to drink with him in the
bar and most of the natives greeted him in the street, pointing him out
as the donor of the large sum toward the church’s restoration; but
any of this might have happened to any stranger. He wanted to be there
as of right, to be at home while he remained, regretted as a departing
son when he left. He realized that thus far he had moved little towards
that happy goal. He had made no enduring impression; these people
were as far from understanding the warm impulse he felt to pour out
his energies in their behalf, to receive their cordial assurance of
mutual bond and kinship, as he was from understanding how they found
life permanently tolerable without electric light, gas or bathtubs.
He wanted earnestly to plant some seed which would not only blossom
into a thing of utility and beauty for Edginden, but would in its very
nature prove to succeeding generations of its children that only one of
themselves could have conceived the idea of it.

Numerous tentative projects floated through his brain, but the most
favoured children of his imagination all seemed ill-suited to his
purpose. The best, the only gift worthy of the name was the power of
growth, and he could see no possibility of expansion in Edginden. He
might set on foot tactfully a wide publicity campaign to set forth the
unique advantages of the place, but he frankly doubted that it had any.
There was no manufacturing, and no logical reason why any enterprising
manufacturer should choose it for a site. He was reasonably certain
that it would not, unlike the thriving small towns of America, buy up
tracts of land and offer them gratis as an inducement. Nor could he
conceive that the local squire, a stentorian fox-hunting giant who
owned the land at both ends of the village, would sanction the placing
of signboards, no matter how artistic, and for no matter what public
purpose, in his domain. He was sure that these people wanted their town
to grow, that was only human. But how to achieve it, how to overcome
their dimly perceived prejudices and make them all pull together toward
this end, for that he was beginning to despair of finding a solution.

Then, one day, he unexpectedly found it. He was passing Roger Martin’s
shop and decided to drop in. Martin was his most intimate acquaintance
in Edginden. Each vaguely remembered the other as a boyhood playmate,
and each had a dislike of whisky, which drew them together in a corner
of the Unicorn’s cosy pub. Martin had an unlimited curiosity about the
New World, and Powell a tireless pleasure in gratifying it.

The shop, in a more pretentious locality, would have been called an
antique shop. Here it served a more humble and daily need; though
filled with quantities of old vases, pots, bowls, urns, cups and other
household articles in copper, pewter and brass, with a fair sprinkling
of old chairs, tables and chests in oak and walnut, its chief business
was to supply Edginden homes, and particularly its kitchens, with the
commonplace utensils necessary for containing and cooking. The sale of
old things was subordinate to their mending, and to the making of new
things.

Powell enjoyed watching almost any form of human activity, and found
his place in Martin’s old wing armchair soothing; it was where he
always sat while exchanging sentences with the latter between the
agreeable strokes of hammer on copper. The place was silent, however,
as he entered, and its owner was standing by his work-table, which was
pushed against the rear windows of the shop, overlooking a tiny walled
garden now abloom with red tulips and purple iris. Martin was a little
man, smaller even than Powell; his grey hair was thin at the top, but
thick, crisp and curly over his neck and ears; his distinguishing
features were red, wrinkled cheeks which dimpled when he smiled, merry
twinkling eyes, a disorderly white and black moustache, and prominent
upper teeth. At the moment he was attentively examining a bronze vase,
in the form of a cylinder imposed on the flattened top of a sphere. He
nodded over his shoulder to his visitor.

“This has just come over from your country,” he said. “A lady who
passed this way once and bought some of my things sent it to me from
San Francisco to see if I could copy it. She wants to make them both
into lamps. Isn’t it a beauty?” He lovingly fingered the dull patine of
the bronze, lifting it in both hands.

Powell was impressed by something else, however. So this little fellow
had a clientele extending to San Francisco. Strange. “Do you often
sell things in America?” he asked.

“Oh, yes,” responded the smith, still caressing the vase “I’ve a number
now to go to New York and Boston. There are some of my things in India
and Australia, too,” he added proudly. “Hardly a month passes without
my getting an order from abroad.”

Powell remained silent, thinking rapidly. So there was an activity
of Edginden with a fame beyond its confines. These bits of brass and
copper were known and desired by folk living at the ends of the earth.

“Why do you keep such a small shop?” he demanded suddenly.

Martin set the vase down; it gave the deep-toned ring of the G string
of a violin gently brushed in passing. “It’s bigger than I need now,”
he said, turning round in surprise.

“But you could extend the business, couldn’t you? If you already
have customers in San Francisco and Sydney, in New York and--” the
alliteration failed him and he hurried on, “Why man, you could make a
big thing of this.”

Martin had before this failed to follow the American’s mental flights;
now he stood puzzled, his hands holding the shoulder-straps of his long
blue apron, his head on one side like a sparrow’s, looking down on the
other.

“But all that doesn’t keep me and Jim busy full time.” Jim, the
assistant, was at this moment occupied in wheeling a crying infant up
and down the walk in front of the shop, the while its mother was at the
chemist’s two doors away. “I’ve had more work outside of Edginden this
year than ever before, and I still have plenty of space and time to
spare.”

“Yes, but listen, man!” Powell was in the full ecstasy of sudden
inspiration. He got up and walked over to the other; his eyes seemed
to come out of their shadowy retreat and were flashing. “Don’t you see
that if there is a little demand for your stuff, you can make a big
one? It isn’t as if you were limited to this place. Put your wares out
into the world. Advertise! I’ll bet all I’ve got you can triple your
business in a year and make it a hundred times as big in three. People
are going in for the old-fashioned stuff. Why, I’ll do the job for
you for nothing. I’ll make your shop and Edginden famous. This is the
chance I’ve been looking for. Give me a free rein and Martin’s Brass
and Copper will be known wherever English is spoken, and then some!” He
was aflame with his vision. He saw himself at last in his proper rôle,
his ordained relation to his native place.

“But how?” persisted the bewildered little shopkeeper. “If you just
doubled the business it would be too big for me; I couldn’t do the
work.”

“You wouldn’t have to,” snapped the other; then, lowering his voice
and putting his hand on the other’s shoulder, continued, “Quantity
production! That’s the answer. It’s my function in the world to show
people how to sell large quantities of things. That’s efficiency,
economy. It makes more and better things, and everybody happier. We’ll
instal the proper equipment, and you will just watch and see that
the thing’s done right. We’ll put up a model plant, get in outside
labour--why man, can’t you see what this will mean to you and your
town?”

But Martin’s troubled expression, instead of vanishing, became more
anxious. “I don’t think you can make these things with machinery,” he
explained plaintively, “I’ve made most of the metal utensils in the
village myself, but sometimes they buy them outside, and very soon they
are brought in for repair. Most often they are not worth the trouble.
They are like that table in the garden--when Jim came to help me we
were too busy to make one for him, so I had that one sent down from
London. It’s no good after two years. You can see how the top is warped
and the legs have gone to pieces. This one I’m using my grandfather
made.”

The American cogitated a moment. “I don’t see that,” he affirmed
presently. “Copper is copper, and brass is brass, and if you get the
right material and see that it’s made right, you will have done your
part of the job. You can turn out the same designs a thousand times
faster, and give employment to a thousand more men. Can’t you see the
difference it will make? We’ll get the railroad to run right into the
town instead of three miles off--why we’ll put the place on the map!”

Martin became of a sudden very serious. “I--I’m not sure we want that.
We had a hard time keeping the railroad out of here in the first place,
and I’m afraid we couldn’t do with a lot of strangers. It would turn
things upside down. I’ve always done my best to please the people here
and I know what they like. And when I bought a bed from Sam Greene or
clothes from Bartlett or medicine from Rollo Hines I knew they were
giving me their best, just what _I_ wanted. We are sort of used to each
other and understand each other. I don’t think we should get along so
well if we had a lot of new people to deal with.” He was apologetic,
diffident, eager to explain his position, but underneath, Powell felt,
stubborn in his prejudices; for the first time he began to be slightly
exasperated. Convinced not only of the worth of his intentions but of
the soundness of the plan that had taken hold of him, feeling himself
on the verge of bringing a great boon to Edginden, he was annoyed
at the other’s failure to fall into step with him. He was already
visualizing the miraculous, mushroom growth with which he was familiar,
for which he had often been largely responsible, and the unlooked for
opposition dumbfounded him. He had often had difficulty in selling an
idea, in convincing people that they would get their money’s worth;
he had never as yet encountered, even remotely, opposition to his
underlying philosophy. It had never occurred to him that men might look
otherwise on expansion. Martin, sweet of temper, and shy in manner,
began to symbolise an obtuse, almost sullen unresponsiveness in the
people he was so eager to serve. If only he could come to some common
ground, if he could argue against objections he could understand. His
hopes were being dashed to pieces on a rock so unsubstantial that he
could not even see it.

“But what would the world be like if everybody--” he began, when the
door opened and the proprietress of the Unicorn joined them, her parade
to the back of the shop punctuated by the clatter of furniture and
the toppling of metal ware. The aisle was narrow and irregular, Mrs.
Unicorn very wide and quite direct in her progress. She carried in her
hand a copper tea-kettle of unusual pattern, the spout coming from the
top of the kettle and issuing through a large, graceful handle.

She ignored Powell and addressed Martin directly.

“Roger, that girl of mine has gone and smashed this kettle against the
stove,” she said, exhibiting a gash in the fair copper surface. “Can
you mend it?”

He took it from her and examined it carefully. A pathetic look of
distress settled on his face. “I’ll try, Miriam,” he observed finally,
“I shall let you know if I can’t.”

“Well, do it as soon as you can, and don’t let it cost too much,” she
said pointedly, and took her departure.

As soon as she was out of the door Powell laughed. “Serve her right
if you made her scrap this and sold her another kettle,” he remarked,
“she’s tight as a vice.”

Martin did not reply for a moment. He continued to examine the
kettle, real pain showing in his eyes. He put aside the vase from San
Francisco, selecting some tools, lit his brazier. Finally he said to
his companion, “I hope I can make this right. It’s one of the best
things I’ve ever turned out of this shop.” He turned back to his work.

Powell’s smile faded. The three-coloured, full-page advertisement he
had been inwardly contemplating, which was to blazon to the world
“Edginden for Excellence--Martin’s Metalware is as durable and
beautiful as the English village in which it was made” crumpled up and
disappeared as if it had been dropped into a large fire. He pondered
the other’s words a moment, noting keenly at the same time how he
fondled the injured utensil. An expression of understanding crept
slowly over his face, and he stole out softly without disturbing the
absorbed craftsman.


FOOTNOTES:

     [17] Copyright, 1926, by Milton Waldman.




                           FIRE AND WATER[18]

                           By GLENWAY WESCOTT

                        (From _Collier’s Weekly_)


                                   I

The sky rolled from side to side like an animal in pain, outstretched
on the soft, saturated trees. Now and again there was a groan of
thunder, and lightning flickered with a glitter of enormous eyes,
rolling in their sockets.

I was driving back to my father’s farm from the village. The downpour
beat on the buggy-top, splashing to the ground and spattering the
rubber laprobe. I disliked the smell of the wet harness leather and the
sweating horse, wishing to enjoy the sour fragrance of the vegetation
half-floating, half-rooted, in the fields. The lantern hanging from
the dashboard hollowed out a space in the darkness into which the rain
poured as bright as tin.

As I crossed a small bridge the lantern-light fell for a moment on the
dripping hat and red face of a man who was leaning against the cement
rampart. It was a neighbor named George Stearns. Should I have stopped
to give him a lift? He was less than half a mile from home; he would be
drunk and troublesome, furthermore I should have had to wake his wife
and daughter, while he alone would roll quietly into the hay-mow.

It was his custom to return from the village in this condition three
or four nights in the week, always on foot, since his daughter Amelia
would not let him take the horse. His drunkenness was proverbial,
and every one who used that road had seen him stumbling through the
underbrush, collapsing backwards into a ditch, or drawn up patiently
out of the way of hoofs and wheels. Weather meant nothing to him; he
dug his way through the drifts, lay in the mud, lurched into cold
creeks, but always got home. He was well liked by his neighbors, who
took a certain pleasure in pardoning a manly weakness, and praised his
good nature whenever his bad habit was mentioned. One autumn, having
swigged too frequently from a bottle behind a beam in the wagon-shed,
he dropped his pitch-fork into the hopper of a threshing-machine,
spoiling the blades which cut the twine; but after the owner had cursed
and threatened, he was not even forced to pay for the damage.

As I passed the lamp rolled low, which Amelia always left in a window
to guide her father, I remembered a story I had heard, how at the age
of eight George had disappeared for a night and most of a day. His
family had lowered a lantern into the well, and shouted in the woods
around the sugar-bush, thinking of wild cats and wolves, which still
came out of the deep forests from time to time to carry off lambs and
ravish the chicken coops. His hysterical mother peered into the bear’s
pen, half-expecting to see strips of clothing on the ground and blood
on the animal’s tusks. The whole countryside was aroused. At last,
after a mournful meal, his father had gone into the basement with a
candle and a pitcher to bring up cider, and found the boy, drunk beside
a barrel.

I thought then how one came to know people by the accumulation of
glimpses; the sight of George, wet and drunk on the little bridge, a
moment too fleeting even to speak to him; and after that his solitude
and my solitude, in which my memory assembled other casual words and
brief encounters. In that country I met my neighbors chiefly on the
road. Thickets and piles of brushwood, the gravel, the puddles, the
barbed-wire fences, the hitching-posts, and the piazzas, filled the
corners of every picture of their lives. A one-horse vehicle brought
me near them, like the field-glasses with which a naturalist detects
a bird in a tree, though its plumage is the color of the tree. All my
relations with George Stearns and his family, for example, were of this
kind: the talk of one of them and myself in a buggy, or between one in
a buggy and one standing beside the wheel or on a porch; the look of
one of them in a barnyard or a field....

Thus about the nucleus of George’s face in the rainstorm, previous
impressions gathered, later images and later conversations were to
gather, rounding out a pointless history. Recollections of similar
men’s lives served as intuition into his life, so that, as I turned
in at my father’s gate, I could see him behind me in the darkness,
blustering and hiccoughing, slipping down in the flooded grass, I could
hear his obstinate sighs in the wind as it pulled the clouds away.

His eighty-acre farm was a miserable piece of property. Gashed with
gullies, the fields of red clay sloped acutely above the house and
barn, which were almost hidden in the edge of a swamp. A lake lay like
an immense ditch in the center of this swamp, and into it the rains
carried the topsoil from increasingly arid fields. George’s father had
understood the weakness of his farm, and had kept the upper acres in
sod-crops, filled the gullies with stone, planted clover to nourish the
soil, rotted the grain-straw in the barnyard, and carted it with manure
into the fields. But George preferred to forget these hard expedients,
and the farm became, as it were, a portrait of himself. He planted only
a little oats for the horse, a little corn for the cattle. The fences
tottered and fell under loads of woodbine and wild grapes. In great
pastures full of thistles two or three sharp-hipped cows gnawed the
june-grass that grew between the stones.

George hired out by the day to his more ambitious neighbors. He was
satisfied with this way of life; to move from farm to farm without
responsibility, to work without haste or worry, to spend his earnings
and his leisure in a saloon. The lot of his wife and daughter was
not so agreeable. They lived like a pair of domestic animals in a
pen: coarse trees on three sides, the tantalizing road on the other;
no variety of duty or scene, no entertainment, no plans, nothing to
expect. Inevitably their poverty would pinch closer and closer, and
they were bound to a man who was happy and didn’t care.

At first Amelia seemed to bear it better than her mother. As a tall,
wry-faced girl Mrs. Stearns, having been assured by her brothers that
she need not expect to be courted for her looks, had married George
to avoid becoming an old maid. George’s mother had suggested that
he might settle down when he married, and she had to take the risk.
The little house like a dry-goods box had seemed, in those days, a
respectable home; but other people’s prosperity had built all around
it, to its shame, incomparable mansions with turrets, lightning-rods,
and picketting around the chimneys, incomparable hip-roofed barns with
the name of the owner stencilled under crossed flags; and George’s
house had deteriorated with his land and himself. Mrs. Stearns fretted
less at her husband’s shortcomings than at the looks of the place.

“Everything’s goin’ to pieces,” I heard her complain one day. “It’s
the worst lookin’ place in the county. Look at that broke rig with the
weeds growin’ through the wheels. The tools all out gettin’ rusted.
I’ll be switched if the mare don’t look mangy!”

“Oh stop it, Ma!” Amelia muttered. “I’m tired of that kind of talk!”

“Nobody goes by on the road,” her mother went on, “nothin’ to see,
nothin’ to do. And me sick. Your pa gets the best of it, he gets out
among folks. We women don’t get no further’n you could throw a stone.”

Amelia marched across from the sink, her round shoulders raised,
shaking her dish-towel angrily. “Who’s to blame for this God-awful
marsh? What’s the good of whimperin’? Who’s to blame, I ast you? Better
go to bed, Ma, and rest.”

When the girl went out to do her milking, the sick woman shuffled off
to bed. If it rained she tossed back and forth on her bed, kept awake
by the water which gushed in all the gullies, washing the best of their
land down to the lake. The temporary rivers gurgled and grew thick,
without foam, and ended as suddenly as they had begun. It seemed that
soon there would be nothing but rocks between the fences.

Amelia was a short, flat-chested girl with muscular arms and extremely
wide hips. Her chapped and freckled skin seemed to have been drawn
tightly over the bones of her face--over the long nose, the cheek-bones
exactly in the center of her cheeks, the receding but stubborn chin--a
face in which were combined poor health and great strength. Her
eyelids fluttered so much that one could not remember the eyes, and her
thin lips pouted habitually.

She did all the work, had always done it. As a child she went to school
only during the winter months, and ceased altogether at fourteen when
the school inspector could not force her to go. She kept the house
decently clean, baked, churned butter, made her own clothes, and
nursed her increasingly bed-ridden mother. Then there were the chores:
she gave the cattle frozen corn-fodder to supplement the straw which
they ate from the stack, milked them, and took the can to the cheese
factory, and pumped from the stinking vat her share of whey for the
pigs. I had seen her staggering down ditches which she had shovelled
in the snow drifts, her long arms almost pulled from their sockets
by the slopping pails of swill, or stooping over the smoke from a
kettle-shaped stove which melted the ice in the water-trough. At
butchering time she worked elbow to elbow with the men, scraping the
bristles from the carcass soused in boiling water, and she alone cut
up the pigs, rubbed and smoked the bacon, and ground the sausage. She
watched over the old sows when they farrowed, sometimes far into the
night, lest they eat their young. Her last duty was to turn down the
lamp in the kitchen window where her father could see it as he stumbled
up the road.

In October I was driving to the village before dawn to meet a cousin
at the station. An odor, iced and musky, came out of the woods. The
dewy red leaves looked swollen, and the thickets very large with mist.
My horse was willing, and I enjoyed the road, pointed like a rod into
distant hollows and forests or lifted up to pierce the sky, feeling an
absolute solitude. But when I came near the Stearns farm I saw some
one waiting for me. It was Amelia, and she waved, and when I stopped,
gripped the wheel with her red hands and stared at me, her face very
sharp as if whittled away.

“Gerson, won’t you stop and look at my pa. He’s sick. I’m
scared--scared to wake him up.”

I followed her--not into the house, to my surprise--but into the barn,
where the light fell with a feeble quiver from the two peepholes and
innumerable cracks. Amelia pointed into the nearly empty hay-mow, where
I saw first a pair of heavy boots, smeared with mud, the toes turned
sharply outward, and beyond them George’s face, enormous, crimson, and
disdainful, with hay in his hair and several stalks in his moustache.

“I’m sorry, Amelia. He’s dead.”

“Oh Lord ... I thought so.”

“Is there anything I can do? Shall I tell anybody?”

“Well you can stop and tell Mrs. Bemis. You’re goin’ to the village?
Tell an undertaker to come, the cheapest one.”

“Is that all?” I repeated, shocked by her perfunctory courage.

“Yeah, that’s all.” She sighed. “I got to wake up mother and tell her.”

Four months later she married a man named Nick Richter. Her mother
expressed a peevish gratification: “Amelia couldn’t stand it, bein’
alone. I ain’t much company no more.” She grew weaker, and kept her
newly married daughter at her bedside all that winter, exercising a
tyranny with her eyes when she could not speak, and they buried her in
April.

There was a large funeral, for during the six months by which she had
survived her husband, the community had decided that she was a martyr
to his drunken shiftlessness. Amelia asked my father and me to bring
two teams to take people from the house to the cemetery, and she
herself rode in my father’s carriage with her only living uncle, his
wife, and another relative. But after the service she separated herself
from her family and climbed into the front seat beside me, looking very
tired, her face tight and yellow, her mouth twitching as if with anger.

“I couldn’t stand those sneaky women another minute. My Aunt Cynthy and
Mrs. Smart, the old hens. They think I don’t show a proper feeling.
They’ll start again’s soon as we get home, but I might’s well have a
rest, I guess.”

“Good idea,” I said.

“Of course I’ll miss her and she was always good to me,” she added
timidly, as if to please me, and buried her pale nose in a handkerchief.

To change the subject I asked, “Are you and Nick going to stay at the
farm?”

“I s’pose so.”

“I thought you might try something else. The land isn’t much good, is
it?”

“No good at all. Worn out, sandy--stones and ditches. It’s gettin’ now
so’s it won’t raise grass--never was manured any. And the fences are
all down. God, I hate it!”

I asked why.

“Well, not just because it’s poor farmin’. I don’ know--the woods
maybe, those rotten trees so close. It’s no way to live; you see ’em
all day and hear ’em all night. When I was a kid I used to be scared
our house would slide into the lake. Was you ever down there? It just
shows you what it’s always been like. If you fell in, you’d have some
chance--but if you was always in....”

Her voice weakened to a loud whisper. “You need some excitement.
I never went nowhere, never saw nothin’--had to work. I guess you
wouldn’t have the nerve to get out of a dead hole like that if you knew
you got to come back. That’s why I never went to dances. I guess you’d
jump into the lake for good--when you got home I mean.”

I felt uncomfortable. “Why don’t you sell the whole outfit and rent a
house near town. Nick could make as much by the day as he does here.”

She did not seem to listen. “And it’s so awful still,” she muttered.
“My God. It’s so still you can hear the slime dripping in the well.”

I renewed my encouragement. “Sell it and go to town. Nick could make
two or three dollars a day. Don’t try to stick it out another year.
Give yourself a chance. Have an auction,” I said.

“Oh Lord,” she cried. “Sell all that junk? It wouldn’t bring thirty
cents. Spread all that rubbish round the yard for a lot of old women to
pick over? I should say not.”

“Well, do something then,” I said impatiently. We were in sight of the
house.

“Oh, I couldn’t,” Amelia moaned. “I couldn’t go off and leave that
house--everything the way it’s always been. It’d be like leaving one of
them, Ma or Pa, like not burying them,” she said.


                                   II

Nick Richter had married to improve his position. His father, a
blacksmith, having speculated in Texas oil, had been forced, just
before he died, to sell his house, his shop, and every hammer and
horseshoe. Nick disliked his father’s trade, and drifted in a radius of
ten miles around the village, working by the day, week, or month, at
odd jobs. He bought a horse and buggy when he could afford to, selling
them if he lost his job, and looked for a wife at every Saturday and
Sunday night dance for several years. But he danced with his jaw, his
neck, and his elbows, and the boisterous girls merely laughed at him,
so these entertainments left him lonely and discouraged.

The lake in the swamp below the Stearns house contained pickerel and
black bass, which George had been too law-abiding as well as too lazy
to exterminate with nets. Since the owner was a bed-ridden widow in
Milwaukee, he was its virtual proprietor, and rented his flat-bottomed
rowboat two or three times a week. Nick drove up before the barn one
Sunday morning, two bamboo poles wagging behind his buggy, and Amelia
showed him where to tie his horse and brought the heavy oars from the
shed.

He was soon recognized as her beau. George had always puttered about
the sheds on Sunday, and Amelia, leaving her chores to him, claimed her
first regular holiday. They went to picnics, and drove from village to
village, stopping at the saloons for soda and beer, and sat very late
on the back porch. Sometimes they went to the lake to fish or pretend
to fish.

I saw them there one morning just before George died, as I walked
through the swamp on an old corduroy road. From the tall maples leaves
floated to the ground like a harvest of ghostly oranges. Through a
clearing I could see the murky hills, and when I approached the lake,
the water glimmered between the boughs in mother-of-pearl strips. From
the tottering boat-house a muddy channel led out through the reeds to
a cup-shaped harbor, separated from the deep water by a sand bar. In
this quiet place a few lilies grew, the yellow thrusting their closed,
hard heads above the surface, the white spreading tufts of petals like
miniature swans.

Here the boat was at rest, the oars hanging from the oarlocks. I stood
on the shore for several minutes, unobserved, and then turned back
into the woods. Nick crouched in the bottom of the boat, half-hidden,
and Amelia, sitting on the broad back seat, held his head in her lap.
Upon her face there was a vague, pale look of ecstasy, an ecstasy of
possession without confidence and without hope.

There followed George’s death, their hasty marriage, the mother’s
illness and death. By spring Nick must have recognized the sterility
of the farm, for he put in only the patch of oats and the patch of
corn, ploughed up the garden for Amelia, and began to hire out to
his neighbors as George had done. He was a good worker in his sour,
muttering way, his shoulders bent forward like the wings of a large
hawk, his gaunt wrists extended stiffly. Perhaps his marriage was a
disappointment; certainly he failed to feel the security of a man of
property, the serenity of a married man, of which he may have dreamed.
Perhaps he had been contaminated by Amelia’s discontent. Perhaps he
was afraid of her: a weak swimmer who had ventured into what looked
like a stagnant pool, to find himself in the embrace of a profound,
indomitable current.

Early in the next harvest I stopped one afternoon to ask Amelia if
Nick could help my father any day that week. The horizon was wrinkled
with heat waves, the zenith as dark as a sea, and one never ceased to
hear the growling of binders. In all the reaped fields the stubble was
spotted with bindweed like drops of blood. As I turned down toward the
swamp I observed the poverty of the fields there, the exhausted soil
gaping through the grass, the thin stand of grain, the great parched
gullies, the bogs where the birds shouted over the ripe weeds. The
trees slept in the sunshine: not a leaf swayed, but sometimes one
feathered prematurely to the ground.

My mare trotted in at Amelia’s gate under the poplars full of
blackbirds. In the semicircle of forest the little house squatted,
staring blindly from its windows. The sheds leaned against the barn. A
sick dove staggered over the rocks by the water-trough. A little way
from the kitchen door, some shirts and stockings and cotton sheets hung
on a line stretched between two posts.

“Hello!” I shouted. No answer. “Amelia!” An echo, small and soft, came
back from the woods: “_Amee-lia!_” I jumped out of the buggy and went
up the steps, certain that if she had gone to town she would have taken
in the washing. The kitchen smelled of boot-leather, manure, soft soap,
and cooking, and there was another odor which I identified as that of
moth-balls.

Could she be asleep? The pendulum of the clock creaked monotonously. I
stepped inside and called again. The breakfast dishes lay in and around
a dishpan of cold water, and the fire in the range was only a handful
of pink coals. I felt the embarrassment of an empty house. Deciding
that she had gone to the woods for blackberries, I drove away.

As I passed one of the farms owned by a man named Beacon, I saw him
sitting on the lawn, a pitcher of water beside him, fanning his
brick-red face with a newspaper. In hot weather he left the heavy work
to his sons, since he weighed more than two hundred and fifty pounds.
He beckoned to me and came down, wheezing and ponderous, to the road.
“As you went by Stearns’,” he asked, with the worried frown of a man
who has a larger harvest than he can handle, “did you see anything of
Nick?”

I shouted because he was deaf. “No, Mr. Beacon. I stopped at the house,
but there wasn’t anybody there.”

“Whew,” he sighed. “Nobody there. Queer. Nick’s been helpin’ us out,
and he hain’t showed up today. He al’ays sends word. I thought he
must’a been sick.”

“It is funny,” I admitted. “Amelia wasn’t there either.”

“Well, it’s a new wrinkle for Nick,” he concluded mournfully.

I intended to stop at Amelia’s again, but as I came back from the
village I detected in the air a faint bitterness of smoke--so faint at
first that I thought it had drifted down from a forest fire in the
north. When I came to the top of a hill I saw it, hanging in a black
mushroom over the swamp. I touched the mare with my whip and rattled
into the alley, where the smoke was thick and steady and the color of
wheat-chaff, blowing slowly overhead.

It was the Stearns house. Through a hole in the roof a great draught
lifted the flame as if in a chimney. The yard was full of men, whose
faces in the ruddy light were strange and glistening. Sweat dripped on
their blue shirts. They were fighting the fire eagerly and with some
skill; already they had chopped away the flaming porch. Three men in
turn worked the handle of the coughing, spurting pump, and bucket after
bucket of water was passed from hand to hand and emptied.

I saw immediately that Amelia and Nick were not there. Some buggies and
an auto had stopped along the road, and several women looked on with
interest, their summer dresses and parasols lending to the catastrophe
an air of picnic. Among the spectators, but near enough to make his
orders heard above the crackle and roar of the fire, the shouts, the
axes, the creak of the pump handle, old Beacon was enthroned on a
dry-goods box.

“Well my boy,” he demanded, “what d’you think of this? Did they have
any insurance?” He smiled wickedly.

Indignant at his suspicion, I tried to offer some explanation, to
remember some clue. Then I shouted into his ear, “They hadn’t any
insurance. I remember. Amelia asked father about it, and he told her
not to bother, but to sell out when she had a chance.”

A look of perplexity, even of disappointment, passed across old
Beacon’s face, that resembled a great, sagacious beet. He swelled his
cheeks and blew wearily. “Well, I’ll be damned, anyway,” he said.

The roof fell, splitting like paper, and after that the fire
diminished. The floor sent up smoke and steam, but no more flame. The
kitchen stove crashed through the charred boards into the cellar.

“But I don’ know what these men are burstin’ themselves for at this
job,” the old man said. “Looks to me like nobody’s goin’ to thank ’em
for it. The mare and the cart’re gone.” He settled his damp cheeks in
the folds of his neck.

“Oh,” I shouted half-heartedly, “I guess they’ve gone to town. They’ll
be back, poor devils.”

“But I knew better.” My eyes had rested on the clothesline; the washing
which had hung there was gone, and on the ground beneath in an uneven
row the clothespins lay. I remembered the harmless dying coals in the
range. I remembered the unwashed dishes and the odor of mothballs.
I remembered what Amelia had said the day her mother was buried: “I
couldn’t go off and leave that house--everything the way it’s always
been.”

Had they been in the house? Had they heard me call? Had they been
hiding there, in the other rooms or behind a door?

The fire left a ruin shaped like a charred pot. The men drew off--wet,
black, tired, and puzzled--washed their faces at the pump and rolled
down their sleeves. The horses were untied, every one piled into one
vehicle or another, and they drove away shouting; but those who spoke
of the cause of the fire did so in pairs, very quietly.

From the charred and broken house the smoke went up straight to the
sky. Now it was as soft as wool, now like a tower or shell. It widened
over the swamp, casting a shadow upon the lake, and persisted until
dusk with an even, melancholy trembling.


                                  III

Years afterward, while I was stopping for a few days in a town in the
western part of the State, a carnival set up its tents in a dance-hall
park between the river and the tracks. I saw a van or two come down
the main street, the horses’ fetlocks stirring up dust in clouds which
settled on their sweaty backs and on the faces of the man with his
cheeks full of tobacco and the hatchet-faced woman who sat on the
packing cases and rolls of canvas. That night two of the vagrants
appeared at the boarding-house table where I took my meals. The
shuttered dining room smelled like a potato cellar where the sprouts
have nosed their way upward and the scabby tubers have rotted for
months, and when the landlady trotted out of the kitchen and set down
platters of meat in slabs as large as her hand, the regular boarders
looked with sick faces at their plates and at one another.

But the theatrical ladies ate with the silent heartiness of women
paid to eat in a shop window as an advertisement of whatever they
ate. Chemises of shadow lace showed through georgette shirtwaists,
making their bodies look embossed with garlands and butterflies. Under
mats of blondined hair fastened with rhinestone pins, their faces
had an identical appearance of porcelain, the hard eyes surrounded
by pencilled lashes and eyebrows, spots of orange rouge exactly
between the nose and the ear. Their nails cut in triangles shone
like celluloid. Grasping the knives and forks vigorously, their eyes
unfocussed, their red mouths in motion, they ate the fat meat to the
last drop of gravy, the soggy pie to the last crumb.

The next afternoon I crossed the iron footbridge with an aimless
curiosity, into the Grove. The river was only a trickle from puddle
to puddle and gave off an odor similar to that of cucumbers, and the
reflections of narrow, green and yellow leaves upon its surface were
like the footprints of innumerable birds on a flat of mud.

Five great wagons and a mud-caked Ford were drawn up along the river.
The horses grazed in an adjoining meadow, the sweat dried in flakes on
their backs, switching at the flies and never lifting their heads to
look at the noisy camp, unfolded from the loads which they had drawn.

In the center, like a fat woman pirouetting, the merry-go-round
revolved laboriously. The mincing legs of its horses kicked out behind,
their foamless lips were parted, and a pair of crimson tigers drew
a chariot for those too timid or too large to go astride. The power
which set the minute stallions and sky-blue bears gradually rocking
and circling came from a steam engine like a short-necked bottle,
whose whistle preceded the slapping and squeaking of the leather belts
and the outburst of shrill tunes from the calliope, when all the
passengers, mostly children, had been hoisted and set upright in the
saddles.

A crowd of untidy women and shouting boys filled the alley between the
tents. The refreshment booth, a great umbrella of canvas enclosed by
planks laid from barrel to barrel, did a brisk business in ice-cream
cones, in tepid drinks, in hot dogs and patties of ground meat stewing
on a black griddle. A young man whose hair hung down in shoestrings
and a plump woman with brown pouches beneath her eyes ran from side to
side shouting, “What’s yours?” and “Don’t push plee-ase,” storing the
nickels and dimes in a cash-register drawer which opened and shut with
a grating noise.

Next to it stood a “hit-the-nigger-baby” establishment--a hierarchy
of dolls, and a pile of baseballs with which to knock them down, and
a display of bad cigars and felt pillow-covers for prizes. Though it
was Saturday afternoon few men were there to patronize it, for those
who had worked all morning in the heat naturally preferred to lie on
couches indoors, with newspapers over their faces.

The showmen’s cheeks drooped with disillusionment and fatigue. Business
was not good; business was never good, or never good enough. It was a
hard life: shouting, luring, browbeating, laughing, and singing--eating
the poorest food, counting the smallest coins, packing the tents,
frayed finery, nigger-dolls, fangless rattlesnakes, and petrified
Belgian babies; the boss and his wife going ahead in the Ford to rent
the next park, the rest following slowly after the strong-smelling
horses. They must have learned, the youngest Carnival Queen and the
newest freak, that romance is for those who see, never for those who
do, and underpaid as a profession.

I stopped to look at a picture of the dope-fiend, a moon-colored young
man with scaly, presumably allegorical beasts nestling against his
ribs. Hanging beside it were posters of Jocko, the Baboon-Man, who
spoke the monkey language and ate raw meat, a snake charmer among her
serpents which stood up in spirals as thick as trees, and the Fat
Woman, a belted, brooched, and corsetted feather-bed, with oval fingers
scarcely meeting across her tremendous chest. A nervous little man, who
looked as if he might at any moment burst into tears, was lecturing a
dozen people. I was not tempted by his promises, for I could hear the
tremolo of the young man who would say, “Cigarette smoking has made me
what I am today,” and the charmer crooning perfunctorily to her sick
snakes; I could smell his ether and her toilet-water. I had seen a Wild
Man from Java or Borneo or somewhere else who tore off the heads of
live, squawking hens with his teeth and sucked their blood, and felt
sure that this poor tent had nothing so sensational to offer.

The leaves of the maples, pockmarked and bleached by a common blight,
loosened and glided through the windless air, the calliope played, the
barkers grew hoarse, several babies cried. I went on to the next tent,
labelled in great letters GAY PAREE, joining the crowd which gathered
to see a free show before the performance.

Three women and a negro stood on a platform like a large bench. The
women wore diaphanous slips, all beads and fringe, which did not cover
a row of pink and green legs, two of which were crooked and four very
fat. I recognized the ladies of the boarding house. They stared at the
crowd with the solemnity of caged animals, apparently trying to look
voluptuous on the couchless, cushionless boards. One of them pulled her
blouse away from her body and stared avidly inside it. The negro who
stood sleepily beside them crouched now and began to pipe, drearily and
loud, on a sort of flute. The women stiffened, their lips parted, the
pupils of their eyes grew large and cold. Three arms were lifted, and
all their bodies throbbed, paused, and throbbed again. Then each one
curved her waist extremely, first to the right side, then to the left,
and each seemed to spring upward and relax like a bow from which an
arrow has been shot. Three shrill cries and a tapping of the negro’s
foot marked the beat.

During the dance a woman came out of the tent behind the performers and
sat down in the ticket-box. It was Amelia.

I was shocked and amazed. Seven years had passed. And the pair had
vanished like a rock, not thrown, but laid in a pond. No one had
suspected their intention, and after they went, their neighbors
wondered why rather than where they had gone. The police could have
traced them, but why should they have been traced? The farm, which was
heavily mortgaged, went to a real estate agent who came out from time
to time to stare at the ruin and to stamp over the miserable fields,
not knowing what to do with them. Seven years ago.... Doubtless some
one found out what had become of them, but I had been away from home
for years and had never heard.

Amelia had changed more than I, and at first I was afraid she would
give me a wild welcome--to what? The tent was all she had. But in a few
moments I began to doubt if she would have recognized her own father.
She sat there above me like a figure in a jack-in-the-box, took out a
roll of tickets like a pulley-wheel, and counted the change in a box.
Her small eyes drifted heedlessly from dull face to dull face: so many
strangers, so many fools, so many tickets to be sold! She had forgotten
me, forgotten above all what I remembered.

She was grotesquely fat. Her narrow lips had been pressed together
by rectangular cheeks, there were deep crevices at her wrists, and
the sharp chin was lost in a succession of double chins gathered into
a tight necklace of amber beads as large as cherries. Her hair was
drawn up in a pompadour over a visible brown rat, her purple velvet
dress had worn leathery at the elbows. But it was evident, by the way
she sat in that booth like a pulpit, that all this meant progress and
prosperity. Every distortion of her face, every aggrandizement of her
body proclaimed her contentment. Soothed by movement and noise, gorged
by excitement, the girl who had resembled years ago a wistful rat, was
satisfied.

I looked about for Nick, and his appearance between the flaps,
coat-tails first, as he argued with some one inside the tent, silenced
the music and arrested the dancing. He came forward and began to
harangue the onlookers and to shake his large fists, straining the
frock-coat which was buttoned too tightly over his chest. He had not
changed, unless exaggeration be a change: his glance was still hurt
and ominous, and there was the suggestion of a curse in the tone of
his voice. It was plain that the carnival had not been his salvation.
Amelia did not look at him but nevertheless she seemed, in her
fulfillment, to mock his angry hands, the furtive hope of his eyes, his
mastiff-jaw that would never dare to snap.

“You have here, ladies and gentlemen,” he continued, smiling wanly,
“the flower of Oriental art. It is no singing and dancing for children.
There are things about it they would not appreciate. All these famous
performers have appeared in Paris. The French do not relish tame
entertainments. They like it hot, they like it strong. You have seen
their free preliminary dance. It is only a sample of what they can do.
The admission is ten cents. I advise you strongly to come in. The show
starts in five minutes.”

The women and the negro sauntered down the steps behind the flap. Nick
disappeared. Amelia began to tear off tickets and make change, and
presently she followed, never glancing at the stragglers or at me.

I did not see them again. I did not need to hear their story. For in
the dusty grove were tents, the brass throats of the calliope opened
again, and the whole town throbbed with music. Those silences in which
she had heard “slime dripping in the well” were vanquished.


FOOTNOTES:

     [18] Copyright, 1925 (under title “This Way Out”), by P. F.
            Collier & Son Company.
          Copyright, 1926, by Glenway Wescott.




                           THE DEVIL DRUM[19]

                          By BARRETT WILLOUGHBY

                      (From _The Century Magazine_)


_O-o-m, oom-oom. O-o-m, oom-oom. O-o-m, oom-oom._

Up from the _kashim_, the underground council-house, came the beat of
the devil-drum, pulsing hollow and strange amid the scream of the
gale and the rumble of icebergs grinding below the snow-buried Eskimo
village.

_O-o-m, oom-oom. O-o-m, oom-oom. O-o-m, oom-oom._

Ah-king-ah, the medicine-man, was trying to change the wind. Day and
night for two moons the polar blizzard had split its force on the bleak
island pyramid thrusting up through the ice of Bering Strait. It was
a wind of death, a devil’s wind, piling floe on floe until the ice
grounded, yet keeping it ever a-stir. No life could exist beneath the
pack or on top of it, and in the igloos clinging to the white slope of
the shore the people, unable to hunt, were facing starvation.

_O-o-m, oom-oom. O-o-m, oom-oom. O-o-m, oom-oom._

In the temporary lull the hollow rhythm grew louder, penetrating the
walls of the missionary’s igloo, where he, the only white man on the
island, sat alone before a table clutching an open book with both
mittened hands. The twilight of the arctic noon made no impression
on the thick frost-crust of the window, but the wan rays of a
kerosene-lamp fell on the volume, and on the missionary’s gray hair
showing above the dropped hood of his reindeer parka. With every breath
a shaft of vapor clouded the chill air, for his supply of driftwood had
vanished while the blizzard was in its first month, and after he had
shared his oil with the village families there was little left for use
in his Eskimo heating-lamp.

The reverberation of the devil-drum was suddenly pierced by the wail
of a wolf-dog dying under the teeth of its hunger-maddened mates. The
man raised sunken eyes, blue and fervid with a terrible anxiety, and
listened. The sounds of cannibalistic ravening sent a tremor through
his body.

“God--God--” he flattened his palms on the open Bible and strained his
thin face upward in desperate supplication--“God, Father, change the
wind!” During a moment’s silence his gaze remained fixed on something
beyond the blackened ceiling of the igloo, beyond the driven ice-dust
of the blizzard. Then in a voice that gathered confidence as he
proceeded he filled the room with ringing phrases from the Book:

“He caused an east wind to blow in the heaven: and by his power he
brought in the south wind.

“He rained flesh also upon them as dust, and feathered fowls like as
the sands of the sea.

“And He let it fall in the midst of their camp, round about their
habitations.

“So they did eat and were well filled.”

_O-o-m, oom-oom. O-o-m, oom-oom. O-o-m, oom-oom_, the devil-drum beat a
barbarous amen.

“They did eat and were well filled!” The missionary closed the Bible
and firmly, as one who has found new courage, repeated the words in the
Eskimo tongue. He rose from the table, a lean, little man even in his
heavy furs, and crossed over to a corner where a canned-milk box did
duty as a cupboard. From the curled bacon rind that hung there he cut a
thin slice and slipped it hungrily into his mouth. Chewing a bit of it
eased the gnawing in his stomach, which had not yet grown accustomed to
one meal a day, a ration made necessary since he had divided the last
of his provisions with the village.

Opening a door at the back of the igloo he made his stooping way into
another larger room--the schoolhouse and church his own hands had built
so hopefully six months before. Under his stiff fingers the light
flared up from a bracket lamp, revealing a small wall-blackboard which
had never known a chalk mark and the yellow lumber of benches that had
yet to feel the contact of Eskimo garments.

In the beginning the Eskimos had treated him with the good-natured
tolerance of their race. They accepted his presents, ate his food, and
begged or borrowed from him in accordance with their code: The white
man who outwits us is a better man than we, and we admire him; the
white man we outwit is a fool. The unsuspecting little missionary,
confident that he was making great strides into their friendship, was
unusually generous; but the moment he tried to preach the word of his
God, the moment he attempted to interfere with their customs, he found
himself up against a glacial wall of resentment.

“Leave us alone! Leave us alone!” Milli-ru-ak, the hunter, had said
to him in the squirrel-hunting season when the missionary went to
remonstrate with him for biting off the nose of his wife’s lover.
“Leave us alone! Does the Eskimo force his way on the white man who
invades his country? Why does the white man force his way on the
Eskimo? Leave us alone!”

“But Milli-ru-ak, to bite off the nose of thy neighbor----”

“Listen, white man, to the law of my fathers!” The hunter’s dark eyes
narrowed. “Had my neighbor come to me and said: ‘Milli-ru-ak, thy
woman hath found favor in my eyes. Let us change wives during the
squirrel-hunting, that our families may be allied when the children are
born’; then would I have been proud that my neighbor should have taken
his pleasure with my wife and I with his. But my neighbor was without
honor. He waited until I was gone to the hunt, then like a thief he
goes to my woman. I found him there. I bit off his nose. Such,” said
Milli-ru-ak, turning on his heel, “was the just law of my fathers.”

Aghast at this disclosure, the little missionary persistently attempted
to convince the hunter of his sins, and after a week Milli-ru-ak shot
at him--by accident. The bullet passed harmlessly between the white
man’s arm and his body, embedding itself in the shaky pulpit he was
building at the time. He could see the splintered hole now as he
placed his open Bible upon it and reached for the dangling bell-rope
behind the pulpit.

The _ding-dong_ that marked the Sabbath day was caught up by the
blizzard and carried with the boom of the devil-drum out over the
polar wastes. Every Sunday and Wednesday since the completion of the
meeting-house the missionary had doggedly rung the first and second
bell summoning an indifferent people to listen to the word of his God.
Not a soul had ever responded.

He rang the first bell longer than usual. Now that the magic of
Ah-king-ah had failed to change the wind, now that the dogs were
starving, and the people were eating the last of the moldy seal-meat
originally intended for the animals, surely, he thought, they were
ready to abandon their ways of darkness for the light of Christianity.

He allowed the bell-rope to fall, and poured a bit of oil from a
deflated seal-skin container into the stone lamp in the middle of
the floor. When the flame flared up from the moss wick he held his
hands over it. Not for himself would he have used any of the precious
oil, but he hoped that some curious Eskimo might come and, seeing the
fire, spread the news of it in the village. The people might come to
him then, since there was no oil in the native igloos--no oil for
heating, no oil for melting ice for water, no oil for cooking the moldy
seal-meat. Only the medicine-man had oil now.

The dogs outside had quieted, and the voice of Ah-king-ah’s drum alone
rode the gale. The little missionary, squatting over the lamp, kept
turning his thin, expectant face toward the outside door. He was always
looking for it to open, but it never did. Fifteen minutes dragged by
before he rose and rang the second bell. In the silence that followed
its last clang the _oom-oom_ of Ah-king-ah’s drum mocked him with his
failure in the service of his Master.

Across the vapor of his breath the rows of clean new benches reproached
him with their emptiness, and from the bare wooden walls frost-pegs on
every nail-head pointed at him like accusing white fingers. He turned
slowly and, mounting the pulpit, stood, his hands on the open Bible,
his blue eyes looking down wistfully on the cheerless room. The smoky
bracket lamp behind him threw his shadow, long and grotesque, across
the bare benches, as if in pity trying to cover them. The sound of the
devil-drum filtered in faint, taunting, but the missionary cleared
his throat and, as was his wont, began his lonely Sunday service. His
voice, forlorn and strange at first, grew firmer as he proceeded.

At the end he closed his Bible and turned out the light. There was a
dispirited sag to his narrow shoulders as he went back to his living
room. Today, because death was so near to them all, the Eskimos’
animal-like indifference to him and his message made him feel small and
forsaken; made him ache with the terrible longing of the lonely white
man for his kind. For a moment he stood uncertain, his breath clouding
the cold, stale atmosphere of the igloo; then with the air of one
banishing personal weaknesses he shoved his parka hood over his head,
drew the long fur about his face, and made his way out through the snow
tunnel leading from his door to the open.

The force of the gale struck him flat against a trampled snow-bank
where red stains still defied the covering of the wind-blown snow. Not
a bone or a piece of fur remained of the dog who had died there an hour
before.

The pallor of the arctic noon was filled with frost-dust borne on
wind of such velocity that its passing was like the whiz of speeding
bullets. Through the fur about his face the man peered at the ice-pack
lying like a gray monster below him. Stationary it appeared at first,
but as his eyes grew accustomed to the murky light, it became a thing
of horrid life, heaving, quivering, forming itself into grotesque
shapes with a slowness that was as sinister and relentless as death.
Through the blizzard as far as he could see berg was creeping up over
berg, grinding, crunching, to heights of twenty, thirty feet, until the
masses tottered and crashed down on the other side, sending powdered
ice streaming on the gale like ocean spray. The awful, insensate force
loosed thus in a strange, unearthly land struck to the missionary’s
soul with primeval terror. He felt puny, insignificant, cruelly at the
mercy of that tremendous wind which was blowing the ice-pack down from
the pole and maliciously grounding it in the shallow waters of the
strait. For an instant something primitive in him was near to endowing
it with the malevolent personality the Eskimos were even then trying to
placate through Ah-king-ah’s drum.

“God, Father,” he prayed with sudden, panicky earnestness, “change the
wind!”

_O-o-m, oom-oom. O-o-m, oom-oom. O-o-m, oom-oom_, reverberated the
devil-drum.

Far out on the pack, where death was certain, a dark thing moved. It
drew nearer the village, a great bull walrus scouting vainly for leads
of open water that meant life to the small herd wallowing along in its
wake. The scout rolled its three thousand pounds from side to side
over the moving ice, dexterously fastening its tusks into the base of
each berg and pulling itself to the top. On the pinnacle it reared
still higher on its flippers, sniffing the air, tusked head swaying,
short-sighted eyes trying to pierce the thick atmosphere. A moment of
decision, and through the stridor of the elements a bellowing grunt
rumbled deep and lone, signaling the advance of the herd. The valiant
creature wallowed on from point to point of vantage, progressing
through the zone of constant and terrible danger with a courageous
dignity that won admiration even from the hungry missionary, who saw it
as food, heat, life itself.

Opposite the village the walrus escaped the buckling of the ice by
a hair’s-breadth, and drawing itself up to the peak of a moving
berg, paused longer than usual to toss its mighty tusks in nervous
apprehension of a new danger. Just as the berg began to topple it
sensed the presence of human beings, and sent its wild trumpetings
to warn the herd. The gallant animal, too late to take any thought
for itself, plunged recklessly. A patch of black in the gaping angle
between two floes, a slow closing of the frigid trap, and a long-drawn
despairing roar wove itself through the hissing of the wind and the
booming of the devil-drum. As it died away, the ice was marked by a
seeping red stain.

The herd, panic-stricken at the loss of their leader, flung themselves
forward to destruction, leaving crushed bodies to mark a spotted trail
of death across the ice-field.

The last terror-driven creature was disappearing in the haze of the
blizzard when a bent Eskimo battled his way down from the _kashim_
to the edge of the heaving ice. He sheltered himself in the lee of
a floe, looking long at the evidences of tragedy before him. Three
wolf-dogs, scenting the blood, came out from under the snow and
sat on their haunches to send their hunger-cry keening through the
glimmering twilight. Starving though they were, neither man nor beasts
dared venture over the few feet that lay between them and the meat
tantalizing them on the creeping ice.

“O God, Father, change the wind!” prayed the missionary.

_O-o-m, oom-oom. O-o-m, oom-oom. O-o-m, oom-oom_, propitiated the
devil-drum of Ah-king-ah.


                                   II

When the white man saw the Eskimo, he started. Then tightening the
hood of his parka against the stinging ice-dust, he began creeping
cautiously away toward the sound of the drum. With every backward
glance he quickened his progress. At last he would be able to enter the
tunnel of the _kashim_ while the guard was absent from his post; for
though the missionary’s presence had been tolerated in the igloos, he
had never yet succeeded in forcing his way into the council-house. He
had convinced himself that once in the _kashim_, where he could address
the assembled village, he could persuade them to abandon their heathen
incantations and fling themselves on the mercy of God.

He pressed forward eagerly toward the open jaws of a whale which formed
the entrance to the tunnel. Despite his haste, he came to an abrupt
halt inside the passage. A queer cross of driftwood lay there, warning
strangers against entering the _kashim_ while the medicine-man was
performing the weird mysteries of his calling.

The missionary’s hesitation was banished by his zeal, and a moment
later he caught up a club from the stack of hunting implements near
the opening and began to feel his uneven way along the icy stones of
the tunnel. Half a dozen steps plunged him into darkness where every
movement of his feet roused wolf-dogs driven to shelter by the storm.
They leaped, savagely snarling their hatred of the disturbing white,
and the missionary, knowing that one misstep would send him sprawling
under their slavering jaws, laid about him with a club, beating a way
through the starving animals.

He advanced blindly until a glimmer of light at the end of the tunnel
guided him to the opening in the floor of the _kashim_ above. With a
gasp of relief, he clutched the ladder that led upward, and mounted.
He was not observed as he thrust his head into the dim room, hot and
rank with ammoniacal smells and the reek of close-packed bodies.
Miak, the witch-woman, huddled in one corner, tending the wick of
the medicine-man’s stone lamp. It’s smoky light barely revealed the
skin-covered shelf about the walls where hunters, stripped to the
waist, sat cross-legged and cross-armed, their Mongolian faces set in
earnest concentration. On the floor below them squatted the women, the
old men, and the quiet children, naked as fishes.

All eyes were on Ah-king-ah, the medicine-man--Ah-king-ah who
had successfully defied the Christianizing efforts of two former
missionaries. Many were the tales told of the man’s cunning and
strength not only among the Eskimo tribes, but among the whalers and
the white traders of the arctic. In the Season of the Sun, when the
tribes assembled on In-ga-lee-nay for the yearly Festival of the Whale,
it took Miak, the witch-woman, three days to sing all the runes of his
magic. Mightiest and richest shaman of the high North was Ah-king-ah,
and great in the eyes of the Innuits, was the singing of Miak. So
strong were his words of enchantment, he could plunge a hunting-knife
through his vitals and dance with his necklace of bird-claws dangling
from the point behind. So marvelous were his chants of wizardry that
the sound of them formed kayaks, which took him far to the moonless
land, where spirits of departed ivory-hunters yielded up their secrets
to him. Ah-king-ah had the spirit of a crow. Ah-king-ah was a son of
the wind. Ah-king-ah flew to the moon on the rays of the ice-blink.
Once he flew to Siberia and challenged Nan-kum, the one-eyed shaman of
the Chuckchees, to battle for the supremacy of the North. Had not all
the village seen them fighting over the strait one morning--two great
black crows whose raucous screams sent chills to the hearts of the
bravest hunters? Mightiest shaman of the North was Ah-king-ah. With his
beak he had wrenched off the leg of Nan-kum and flung it to the ice,
cawing triumphantly, while the cripple flapped away defeated to Asiatic
shores. Had not Milli-ru-ak found the leg where it fell, and was it not
the leg of a man? And did not hunters returning from Siberian tundras
report Nan-kum hobbling about on one leg ever after? Great indeed was
Ah-king-ah, the medicine-man, and greater still would he be when he had
changed the wind that was bringing famine to In-ga-lee-nay; greater and
richer, for his price would be half the fruits of the village hunt for
the space of six hunting moons.

The missionary’s eyes fell upon Ah-king-ah, half crouching in the
middle of the floor. He was six feet tall, and nude except for a
short, transparent garment made of the intestines of seals and trimmed
with the crimson beaks of sea-parrots. He was beating upon the sacred
devil-drum and chanting runes treating of the secret things of spirits,
while his slim, naked feet made weird passes and performed strange,
halting steps. With every movement his superb brown body rippled
beneath the transparent shirt, setting all the beaks clattering in
measured cadence. Behind him sat his three apprentices, swaying their
naked bodies as they thumped the floor with sticks adorned with
wolf-tails and gull-wings.

A sudden, sinuous motion, and Ah-king-ah was facing the west. The drum
began a soft, rolling accompaniment to his rising, long-drawn croon.
The tawny torsos of the hunters, moving to and fro from the hips,
caught the light in zigzag waves.

Ah-king-ah’s tones grew louder, the tempo of the drum quickened, and
its sound swelled until it became the voice of the wind, the thunder
of crashing seas, the expression of nature in all her moods of fury.
Swaying bodies responded. The people began to shout, to vent queer
cries in unison, urging the shaman to greater efforts, deeper magic.
Excitement grew until it was a very frenzy of earnestness that
increased the heat of the _kashim_ and started the sweat on the sixty
bodies packed there. The reek of them was sickening, the deluge of
sounds deafening.

Suddenly everything stopped. Ah-king-ah grew rigid. While the jade and
amber beads dangling from the plugs in his lower lip quivered into
life, his dark face took on the look of a demon. He flung out his arms,
raised his chin, and sent an intonation soaring through the din of the
gale.

“Thou, Almighty Devil----”

“Stop!” The small figure of the missionary catapulted to the middle
of the room, one arm outstretched, one thin finger extended. “Stop,
blasphemer!” he shouted, lost to all sense of danger in the fervor
of his religious indignation. “Servant of Satan! son of Belial!
wouldst thou anger God by thy sacrilege?” His pale eyes flashed in his
twitching face, his accusing fingers trembled. “God alone is mighty!
God alone is good! Oh, poor deluded ones,”--he turned pleadingly to
the stunned and wondering people--“shut your ears to the evils of this
sorcerer! Turn to the true God, and the blizzard will die, and you
shall have meat!”

In the smoky light the astonished expressions on the dark faces
changed. They grew sullen, grew threatening, in a silence that was
pregnant with hostility. One wolf-step brought Ah-king-ah close to the
white man, who became dwarfed and insignificant beside the powerful
Eskimo. Ah-king-ah’s voice rang deep and mellow and supremely exalted
after the thin, excited tones of the missionary.

“The white man has spoken, my brothers. But--did we of In-ga-lee-nay
ask him for this God whom he says we insult? The white man has broken
in upon us. He has crossed the sign that warns all strangers from our
council-house. He has spoken. Listen now to Ah-king-ah and compare the
wisdom of our tongues.” He paused until the murmur of approval went
around the hunters’ shelf. “Well ye know that our people have lived on
In-ga-lee-nay for ten times a thousand moons, happy in the customs of
the ancient ones. Well ye know that our island and the waters about our
island have ever been the abode of plenty, the breeding-place of birds,
the dwelling-place of land-creatures, the home of sea-creatures. In
all the land of the Innuits no village has been so favored by the
spirits. In no village but thine could a man sit in his doorway and
shoot enough seals to give a feast.”

The hunters grunted assent and gravely nodded their heads above their
folded arms.

“Yea, my brothers, in the old time ye were happy. Your bellies were
rounded and well filled. Skins of oil hung from your ceilings, and oil
in plenty burned in the lamps of your igloos. This was the happy way of
life under the wise laws of your fathers.” Ah-king-ah shifted his drum
from one hip to the other and resumed with quickened utterance:

“Then comes this white man from the South. Uninvited, he pushes his way
into your igloos with the words of his God. He comes with the ringing
of the bell that is bad medicine in the ears of the almighty devil,
tossing in his hands the ivory ball of the world. Then, my brothers,
from the Place of Winds strange evils have come upon you. Why? Why, my
brothers?”

He allowed a moment’s silence before he leaned forward and whispered
slowly in a way that left the room ringing:

“The--almighty--devil--is--angry--with--you!”

In the hush that followed, the sound of the blizzard seeped in through
the thick walls. Ah-king-ah suddenly flung himself upright, and
continued in a voice that gathered volume as he proceeded:

“The almighty devil is angry with you for harkening to new words.
Behold, your bellies grow flat against your backs. Your igloos grow
cold. Your dogs consume each other. Oh, hear the words of Ah-king-ah,
my brothers, whom the spirits have taught concerning these things
of mystery.” The shaman wheeled, and with a quick, accusing finger
transfixed the missionary. “It is because of this white man and his
ringing bell that the devil is angry!” he shouted. “Wherefore, I say,
let this white man take his God back to his own kind--back to the land
of his fathers!” The words rose to a shriek. “Let him take his God back
to the land of his fathers!”

The muttering of the crowd broke loose in a yelling frenzy as men,
women, and children took up the cry. In the seething, sweating mass of
humanity the missionary’s protests were lost; but the dauntless little
man wrested himself from the hands of the medicine-man’s apprentices,
snatched the drum from the great Ah-king-ah himself, and leaped to the
now empty shelf of the _kashim_.

“Wait! Wait!” he commanded. His fist banged the devil-drum, which
none but a shaman might touch on penalty of death. The very magnitude
of the sacrilege bludgeoned the people into an aghast silence. “For
the sake of your starving women and children, listen to the words
of the white man’s God. In the Book of which I have told you it is
written: ‘Whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do!’ Oh,
poor benighted ones, pray to God for help, and He will answer. For
two months ye have watched Ah-king-ah with his devil tricks trying to
change the wind. His words are a lie within his mouth! His sorceries
are an abomination to the Lord. His----”

A lightning movement, and Ah-king-ah had snatched the drum to him.

“We do not know this man’s God, and we do not want to know Him!” The
shaman’s mighty voice extinguished the missionary’s. “Let the white
man take his God back to the land of his fathers!” The rumble of the
drum began, and the shaman’s feet resumed their weird passes. Again
and again he repeated the words. His rhythmic chanting and the booming
of the drum woke the mob spirit in the people. The yelling crowd that
surged threateningly toward the missionary was led by Milli-ru-ak, who
leaped to the shelf and crooked his avid fingers about the white man’s
throat.

“Stop, my brothers!” The medicine-man’s authoritative voice rang out.
He had ceased his capering, and there was a light of apprehension in
his wary eyes. “Milli-ru-ak, lay thy hands off! It is not well that the
people of In-ga-lee-nay do violence to such as he, for well ye know
how the long arm of the white man’s law reaches even from the South,
where the sun sinks under the world, to the North, where the water
ends. Have ye forgotten the fate of the three medicine-men, Sautock,
Beelack, and O-tock-tock in the year of the Red Death? They did but
bind the man O’Ryan until his spirit fled--the strange man O’Ryan, who
swung the little cup of smoke before his God, and wore the long garment
of a woman, with a cross about his neck. Remember my brothers, how in
the Season of the Sun there came high chiefs from the South, mighty
in anger, and with stars on their breasts glittering like the fishes’
scales? Remember how they hanged Sautock, Beelack, and O-tock-tock high
on the slope back of the village? Have ye the minds of children that
ye can forget the long moons their bones rattled in the chains as the
east wind lipped them? I, Ah-king-ah, to whom spirits whisper, tell ye
it is not well that we do violence to a white man,”--he woke again the
rumbling rhythm of the drum--“but let him leave us in peace to practice
the ways of our fathers. Let him take his God back to his own land!”

“Yea! Yea!” The people took up the words in a clamoring chorus, while
the shaman’s three apprentices seized the protesting missionary and
carried him to the opening in the floor. One of them placed his feet on
the ladder. The other two pressed him down rung by rung until he found
himself on the floor of the tunnel, where the eyes of starving dogs
menaced him.

He stood uncertain for a moment while the _oom-oom_ of the devil-drum
rolled in his ears. Then blindly he groped and beat his way along the
slippery passage.

“Oh, Thou, Almighty Devil--” The propitiatory chant of Ah-king-ah
followed him out into the blizzard.

Darkness had already fallen. The malicious wind flung ice-dust like
splintered glass through the fur about his face. He shut his eyes
against the sting of it, and stumbled forward, a small, forlorn figure
in the polar night. A gust flung him into a drift, and he crawled on
his hands and knees until he encountered a dog asleep under the snow.
He rose hastily, shivering as the roused animal’s howls set all its
mates wailing their hunger in the blackness.

Back in the chill emptiness of his igloo he swayed toward his bunk and,
dropping on tense knees beside it, began to pray.


                                  III

Day after day the blizzard continued unabated. The supply of moldy
seal-meat dwindled, vanished. The people began eating the walrus-skin
coverings of the oomiaks. They chewed the hide dry because there was no
oil for cooking except in the house of the medicine-man. The thin-faced
children and babies suffered mutely, sucking on sealskin ropes, on
thongs of snow-shoes, on anything that contained a bit of nourishment.
The dogs, with uncanny prescience, left the habitations of their
masters for the heights back of the village. There in the graveyard,
where the iron chains still clanked a warning against the hanging-posts
of Sautock, Beelack, and O-tock-tock, the gaunt beasts riddled the
sepulchers and fought like werwolves over what they found. Not even
Milli-ru-ak, the greatest hunter on In-ga-lee-nay, could battle his way
up through the blizzard to shoot at them for food.

Hunger gnawed at the stomachs of the people and marked their faces
with hollows, yet there were no lamentations, no visible evidences
of despair. After the fatalistic manner of their race they waited
patiently, stoically, for a change of weather--or for death.

One night the old mother of Miak, the witch-woman, froze to death. The
next day every family moved to the _kashim_, where, by shutting out the
air and huddling close together, the people could keep warm without
oil. Once a day Ah-king-ah brought them hope and comfort by lighting
the stone lamp and chanting magical words to the almighty devil.

The missionary in his igloo spent desperate hours on his knees pleading
with his God to change the wind. In the darkness he paced his room,
warming his thin body by the exercise and striving for courage by
repeating over and over the promises of the Bible. Sternly he reduced
the rations for his scant daily meal until hunger brought upon him
that strange fanatical exultation which is akin to the ecstasy that
causes the fasting prophet to prophesy, or the medicine-man to perform
his greatest feats of magic. With the passage of each dreary day the
conviction grew upon him that this unprecedented blizzard had been
sent to test his zeal as a worker in the vineyard of the Lord. This
blizzard was his opportunity to win an entire village from the heathen
sway of the medicine-man. With every atom of his being the little
missionary grew to believe that if once he could persuade the people
to enter the meeting-house, if once he could induce them to pray to his
God, the wind would die, and the hunters be able to get food.

This conviction forced him every afternoon through the gale to the
_kashim_. He ignored every rebuff, ignored utterly the danger to
himself, although he knew that Ah-king-ah, should he forget the fate
of the priest-murdering medicine-men, might have him killed as a witch
who had brought misfortune on the village. Sometimes, by dint of
superhuman self-denial, he brought bits of hardtack for the strangely
quiet little ones clinging to their mothers in the _kashim_. Always he
pleaded with the elders to turn from shamanism to the true God. The
Eskimos, apathetic from prolonged hunger, suffered his presence. While
he was with them, there was at least the light of his kerosene lantern.
Otherwise, the _kashim_ was always in darkness now, for Ah-king-ah’s
oil was gone.

Construing this tolerance as an encouraging sign, the earnest little
man brought his Bible, and standing under the swinging light of the
lantern, he translated page after page of Exodus--the promises of
the Lord to the Children of Israel, the feeding of the wanderers in
the desert. But the Eskimos sat stolid, unmoved, apathetic. Even his
ardent rendering of the miracle of the loaves and fishes fell flat.
Ah-king-ah, as if in weary scorn of his rival, stretched himself on the
skins of his shelf and slept, or appeared to sleep.

One day, by accident, the missionary read of the magicians and
sorcerers who competed with Moses and Aaron at the court of the
Egyptian Pharaoh. Milli-ru-ak raised his eyes from a sad contemplation
of his ailing infant son asleep in its mother’s arms. Miak, the
witch-woman, leaned forward over her empty lamp to listen. A stir of
interest went among the people. Here at last was something they could
understand.

The white man had heretofore preached only a kind and beneficent
God, but seeing in this an opening in the wall of their indifference,
he plunged into detailed descriptions of the misfortunes that had
visited the Egyptians. His gaunt face and sunken eyes glowed with
fervor. Hunger lent a delirious and terrible vividness to his speech.
Vicariously, the starving Eskimos were drowned in his Biblical rivers
of blood. They were tormented by plagues of frogs and boils, locusts
and lice. They were terrified by hails and thunders. Aware of the
Eskimos’ almost idolatrous love for their offspring, he loosed his
tongue of all restraint when he pictured the smiting of the first-born.
To the sound of the howling blizzard he dwelt long on the pathos of the
dead childish faces in those desolate homes along the Nile. Ah-king-ah
bestirred himself and sat up. There was a murmuring among the hunters.
The mothers caught their children to their breasts and swayed back and
forth, moaning. The missionary, light-headed from hunger and emotion,
reeled under the swinging shadows of the lantern.

“Would ye, like the Egyptians, harden your hearts against the word
of God and bring death to your children?” he shouted. “Oh, come, my
friends! Come with me before your little ones lie dead in your arms.
Pray to Almighty God and be delivered! Follow me before it is too
late!” Carried away by the effect of his eloquence on the hitherto
indifferent Eskimos, he caught at the lantern and lurched forward
toward the exit of the _kashim_. “Follow me to the house of God!”

The mothers rose with hysterical cries. The hunters began to get down
from their shelf. But before the missionary had reached the ladder,
Ah-king-ah was standing in the middle of the floor. Calm and dignified,
he made a single motion with one hand. Not a soul moved farther to
follow the white man.

The next day, when the missionary climbed to the opening of the
_kashim_, he found the hole covered. His knocks and pleas for entrance
met with no response, because Ah-king-ah was sitting on the door to
hold it down.

Night brought a drop in temperature and an increase in the force of the
gale. The grinding and crash of the ice-pack seemed to threaten the
very foundations of the island. With the exception of the missionary,
every soul on In-ga-lee-nay was packed in the _kashim_. Men, women,
and children chewed desperately on dry walrus-hide and clung together
to keep from freezing. The little ones wedged between their parents
whimpered in misery. At last the company, weary from many wakeful
nights, jerked and flung their arms about in troubled sleep.

When morning broke Milli-ru-ak’s child was dead.

The wailing of the mothers mingled with the roar of the blizzard and
the increased fervor of the medicine-man’s incantations. Before the day
was done, two more little ones died.

It was then that Milli-ru-ak, with three of the council men, appeared
in the igloo of the white man.

“We will pray to your God,” said the hunter, wearily.

The peals of the bell that summoned the people to the prayer-meeting
were freighted with the little missionary’s joy in the fulfilment of
his mission. He had wrested a whole village from the dominance of the
medicine-man!

The sunken eyes in his gaunt, unshaven face glowed with fanatic
happiness as he looked down on the crowded room. Eskimos filled the
benches, stood about the walls, and squatted on the floor about the
last of his oil burning in the stone lamp below the pulpit. Of all
the village only Ah-king-ah was absent. The people sat silent, grave,
attentive, their eyes fixed on the Bible lying open on the pulpit.

The missionary began his exhortation, raising his voice above the
raging of the blizzard and the rending of the icepack. Thrilled by a
sense of achievement and inspired by faith, he spoke with a confidence
and an eloquence he had never known before. Within him woke the spirit
of the evangelist. During the hour he worked upon his congregation he
felt himself rising to the sublime heights from which Jesus himself
had dominated all physical conditions. So exalted was he that his
preaching aroused a measure of faith in the starving Eskimos, even as
the incantations of Ah-king-ah had done.

“Such is the might and goodness of our God,” he shouted after he had
combed the Bible for incidents showing the stilling of storms, the
feeding of the hungry, the raising of the dead. “And He is the same
yesterday, today, and forever! Oh, down on your knees, my friends!”
he cried with sudden vehemence. “Down on your knees and prove him
now--now!”

His impassioned utterance swept his listeners to their knees, shouting,
praying, pleading in long, fragmentary prayers for food, for life, for
a change of wind. The fervid little white man leading them felt the
whole room to be charged with power--an invincible power that flowed
from him and from each one and definitely made its connection with the
Infinite Mind that rules creation.

When he sprang to his feet at the end of the supplication, his thin
face was alight.

“Go home, my people!” his voice rang out with confidence. “Go home and
wait on the salvation of our Lord. Sharpen your spears; put an edge on
your skinning-knives. Make ready your gears, for the day of hunting is
near!”

“If the white man’s God answers, we will all become Christians!” cried
Milli-ru-ak, rising and bringing the others with him.

“Yea! Yea!” came the chorus of assent. Miak, the witch-woman, sidled
close to the pulpit, putting out a curious, but cautious, finger to
feel the Bible.

“If the white man’s God changes the wind,” she croaked, slanting a
wise, bleary eye up at the missionary, “the people of In-ga-lee-nay
will come when the bell calls and listen again to the words in the
black medicine-book.”

From the supreme heights of his faith the missionary watched his
fur-clad congregation depart, seeing in them brands he had plucked from
the burning, souls he had saved from destruction. Finally, in his cold
living-room, he staggered toward his bunk and in sudden exhaustion sank
upon it. He had scarcely drawn the fur robes about him when he was
plunged into a heavy, dreamless sleep.


                                   IV

He awoke to a hush so intense that his soul ached with it. It was as if
the world had died, leaving him the only living thing upon it. After
a moment’s bewilderment he realized that the wind was still, and there
was no sound of grinding ice! His nerves, for ten weeks made taut by
the continuous shriek of the blizzard, relaxed with a suddenness that
was like a fall from a great height. Like a man swimming in a sea of
silence, he raised his hands, groping for the luminous-faced watch
by his bunk. He saw, with a gasp of incredulity, that he had slept
eighteen hours!

Still dazed with sleep and hunger, he crawled from his robes and
hurried out into the glimmering twilight of the arctic day. Great as
was his faith in the power of prayer, he was astonished at the sight
that met his eyes.

Under dark, moving clouds strangely shot with silver the ice-pack lay
quiet and gray. A quarter of a mile away an inky, jagged line marked
a lead of open water among the bergs. Every hunter in the village was
squatted along the lead, and, as he looked, a sudden fusillade of
rifle-shots registered the death of seals coming up to breathe.

Along the shores women and children and old men swarmed laughing,
shouting, as some one threw a seal-hook into a dead animal and drew it
to the ice. They crowded about it, their excited yells increasing. Five
minutes later they were devouring the steaming flesh, stopping often to
toss bits to the dogs, which gulped it ravenously.

The missionary bowed his head, a great gratitude, a great wonder in his
heart. God had listened. God had heard. The famine was over.

Like the blizzard, that day’s hunting was unprecedented in
In-ga-lee-nay. Thirty seals and a sixty-foot whale fell to the lot
of the hunters. There was food in abundance, and oil for the lamps
and for the torches that fluttered yellow lights over the ice-bound
shores where the people worked joyously over the kill. All day the
missionary moved among them. He was happy, elated. They were his
flock, his children. In the flush of his joy he had to exercise
considerable self-control to keep from calling attention to the glory
of God’s mercy. The following day, Saturday, was also filled with
unusual activities, but he permitted himself to speak of the meeting
of thanksgiving which he would hold for them on Sunday. The Eskimos
nodded, and laughed in answer to his enthusiasm. Light-hearted,
variable, they had already forgotten the misery of the famine in the
plentitude of feasting.

But the children with whom he had divided his last hardtack came shyly
to his side and took hold of his hands. They had not forgotten. The
little missionary had not realized his utter loneliness, his craving
for friendship, for love, until he felt the clinging of their small,
warm fingers. His vision was blurred as, one by one, he gathered them
up in his arms and talked to them. Here indeed was his work among these
benighted little ones and their parents. Here would he stay as long
as he lived, teaching them the ways of truth and civilization. His
last thought that night was of the meeting-house on the morrow filled
with grateful Eskimos sending up their praises to God. Perhaps even
Ah-king-ah, the defeated, might come to listen to the Holy Word and
become converted.

Sunday morning found him up early preparing his sermon. He melted ice,
and for the first time in many weeks was able to shave. As he lighted
the blubber-lamps to heat the meeting-house, he noted a small pair
of fur mittens left by some child who had accompanied its mother to
the first gathering. He picked them up and placed them on the pulpit,
intending to return them later. The thought of the youngster sent him
to the bottom of his trunk for the flag he always carried with him.
He could not begin too soon to familiarize the little ones with their
country’s flag, he thought, as he pinned the Stars and Stripes above
the blackboard in anticipation of the near day when the people should
send their children to school.

He rang the first bell, and then busied himself with a rearrangement
of the benches. Engrossed in happy thoughts, he did not realize how
swiftly time was passing until he glanced at his watch. Half an hour
had gone by since his call to meeting! Apprehension stirred in him
as he reached for the cord to ring the second bell, but before his
outstretched fingers touched it, he stiffened in the attitude of
arrested action.

_O-o-m, oom-oom. O-o-m, oom-oom. O-o-m, oom-oom._ The air suddenly
began vibrating to the deep boom of the devil-drum. His hand fell to
his side. Incredulity, comprehension, anger, succeeded each other in
his face. Without pausing to tighten his parka hood he rushed out into
the calm arctic noon, and ran toward the _kashim_ tunnel. One leap
carried him over the medicine-man’s crossed sticks at the entrance, the
next plunged him into the darkness of the passage.

Beat of drum and pagan chanting grew louder as he thrust his head up
through the opening in the floor which was once more the stage for
Ah-king-ah. Behind the shaman stood Milli-ru-ak, with the three whale
hunters who had helped him kill the whale. Bird-beaks and crab-claws on
their scanty garments were clattering to every motion of their dancing
bodies. Their feathered heads swayed above whale-charms of jade that
dangled on cords about their necks. Four Eskimo maidens in primitive
finery stood together, holding by its ivory chains the Ceremonial
Cup of the Whale filled with blubber cubes. At intervals, when the
medicine-man signaled, they held the cup aloft and uttered long, weird
cries like gulls.

The people who had so recently prostrated themselves in supplication
before the white man’s God were now as fervently assisting Ah-king-ah
in the ancient rites of thanksgiving to the Spirit of the Whale. Their
faces glowed with happiness and well-being; their voices rose in joyous
unison with the voice of the shaman.

At sight of the missionary the dancing and chanting ceased abruptly.
Ah-king-ah took a confident step forward.

“Why does the white man bring his long face here to anger the spirits
of the hunt?” he asked.

The missionary’s sunken eyes passed slowly over the faces of the
hunters squatted on the shelf, over the faces of the mothers and of the
old men and the children below. His anger ebbed to a great hopelessness
that showed in the weary sag of his shoulders. He was defeated, yet he
climbed to the floor of the _kashim_ and stood beside the half-nude
figure of the giant shaman.

“Were your words then a lie within your mouths, ye people of
In-ga-lee-nay?” he asked quietly. “Ye did promise this day to send up
thanks to Almighty God for his mercies. If these promises were lies,
why did ye come to pray with me?”

Milli-ru-ak started forward, his eyes narrowed with anger, but the
medicine-man gestured for silence.

“Listen to the words of Ah-king-ah!” He spoke with primitive dignity,
his authoritative voice instantly quelling the murmur of the hunters.
“It was I, Ah-king-ah, who sent my people to the _kashim_ of the white
man.”

The missionary turned incredulously.

“Long had I chanted the runes that please the almighty devil tossing in
his hands the ivory ball of the world,” went on the medicine-man. “And
I knew the time was ripe for fulfilment. Yet the wisdom of my fathers
tells me that all things change form, even as the ice-pack changes its
face in the arms of the wind. New spirits come. Old spirits die. There
is sorcery in all things. Perhaps there is sorcery in the black Book
the white man keeps. Perhaps there is not. But I, Ah-king-ah, maker of
medicine, am not a man of wisdom if I protect not my people against
it. Therefore I sent them to thee, white man, who knoweth the ways of
thy God in the black Book, but before I sent them I promised that I,
Ah-king-ah, who knoweth the ways of the almighty devil, would stay
alone, working for them my strongest magic while they pray. They know
my medicine is great, for, behold! the storm dies like the last grunt
of the stricken walrus and”--he drew himself up proudly, resting his
drum on his thigh--“it is I, Ah-king-ah, mightiest shaman of the North,
who changed the wind!”

In the approving chorus that filled the room the missionary tried to
make himself heard, but Ah-king-ah’s voice continued, vanquishing every
other sound:

“And why should thy God be thanked?” he asked in the earnest manner of
one seeking to understand another’s point of view. “Thou hast told my
people He is a good God wanting to do only good to man. Why pray to Him
when he can do us no harm? But the almighty devil--he is evil, evil.
All his pleasure comes from doing evil to man. Therefore we must sing
the magic runes that please him, so he leaves us alone. Therefore we
must dance before the Spirit of the Whale to show our joy at the good
fortune the devil has permitted. White man”--Ah-king-ah’s shrewd dark
eyes were not unkind as he looked down on the little missionary “our
ways are still the ways of our fathers. Thy ways are the ways of thy
fathers. Leave us, then, and give thy thanks to whom it please thee.”
He raised the drum from his thigh and made a quick motion with it. As
the booming sounded, the three apprentices sprang forward. Not ungently
they laid hold of the missionary and led him to the opening in the
floor. Then rung by rung he was forced down the ladder until his feet
touched the icy cobblestones at the bottom. The trap-door dropped above
him, leaving him in darkness.

As he stumbled over wolf-dogs gorged with food and indifferent with
sleep, his ears rang to the thump of the devil-drum and the pagan
chanting of well fed, joyous people. The sounds followed him from the
passage into the awful pervading silence of the polar day. He dragged
his forlorn figure back along the snowy trail to the meeting-house.
His knees trembled. A sudden awareness of his isolation from his kind
struck through his heart like a sickness.

Past the mocking bareness of the benches, past the blackboard where
the flag, loosed from three of its tacks, hung limp and dispirited,
he made his way to the shaky little pulpit. He rubbed a fumbling hand
across his eyes then, as a hurt child seeks the comfort of its mother’s
breast, his gray head sank on his folded arms, and he pressed his face
against the open Bible.

Numbed by his disappointment, crushed by his failure, he lay, a small,
defeated white man in the primitive fur garments of an alien race.
Gradually into his memory began to crowd the long months of loneliness,
sacrifice, and privation he had borne to bring the comforts of religion
and the uplift of civilization to an ungrateful heathen people. For
them he had given up everything a white man holds dear. For them he had
been willing to give even his life. His work had been futile. Futility!
The word stood out in letters of ice against the blackness of his
misery. But he was at the end. He was through. In the spring, when the
first boat came from the mainland, he would leave In-ga-lee-nay. He
_would_ take his God back to his own land, where there was at least the
companionship of his kind.

Sagging wearily against the pulpit, he was oblivious to the passage of
time, deaf to the increasing happy shouts from the _kashim_. The oil in
the lamps burned away, the sputtering wicks grew black. Unconsciously,
one hand, opening and shutting in anguish, had taken hold of something
soft and warm. When at last he raised his face from his cramped arms,
his eyes, dull with brooding, fell on the tiny pair of mittens he had
placed on the pulpit that morning.

For the space of a dozen breaths he stared at them, then slowly,
meditatively he began stroking them. Into his tired mind crept thoughts
of yesterday. Children had come to him then--children with upraised,
trusting eyes and warm, clinging fingers. They had come because they
believed in him. They liked him. They were potential hunters and
mothers of hunters. With their small clinging hands they were already
molding the future of their race.

Little by little the look of hopelessness faded from his eyes, and a
new determination crept into his thin face. When he stepped from the
pulpit he turned and pinned the flag back into place, then hung the
mittens on a nail beside it.

It was very late for the second bell, but the missionary crossed over
to the bell-rope. His step was firm again, his dogged chin upraised. He
laid hold of the rope and began pulling it vigorously, hopefully.

Out over the still, white bergs of Bering Strait two sounds strove once
more for dominance in the arctic air:

_O-o-m, oom-oom. O-o-m, oom-oom. O-o-m, oom-oom._

_D-i-n-g-d-o-n-g, d-i-n-g-d-o-n-g. D-i-n-g-d-o-n-g._


FOOTNOTES:

     [19] Copyright, 1925, by The Century Company.
          Copyright, 1926, by Barrett Willoughby.




                          GIDEON’S REVENGE[20]

                             By ELINOR WYLIE

                      (From _The Century Magazine_)


Gideon extinguished the flame wherewith he had lit his pipe; he
dropped the match tidily behind the wallflowers, and looked about
him with quiet, but incredulous, joy. Standing at the door of the
cottage, his head was stooped a little beneath the lintel, partly
from actual necessity and partly in a courteous gesture of apology to
this exquisite scene in which only children or delicately formed and
tinted women might appear appropriate and untarnished. Above him the
freshness of the honey-colored thatch contrasted pleasantly with the
rose-purple of ancient brick; the watery sheen of the upper windows
reflected a few hanging strands of straw, like gilded seaweed observed
in the profundity of a wave. Inclosed by its clipped hedge, the garden
lay like a small square pool of flowers drawn together in concentrated
brightness, as if many larger and grosser gardens had been melted into
one and poured into this narrow space. Across the green a dew pond
reversed the sky to another pool, and permitted Gideon’s vision to
plumb without fatigue the utmost depth of the empyrean.

Gideon was a tall old man; his age was perhaps seventy. His face had
more of the falcon than the eagle in its lines; the beaked nose, the
bony setting of the large bright eyes, the hollowed cheek and temple,
were all carved and polished to a pattern sufficiently bold, but light
and restless and uneasy. His eyes were gray; his hair, which had once
been reddish, had now the faintly yellowed whiteness of flax; it rose
steeply to a crest above his brow. The garments which he wore hung
somewhat awkwardly upon his emaciation--an emaciation suggesting
austerity rather than weakness. The correct and shabby tweeds were
excellent in themselves, molded to fit with easy perfection the scene
and circumstance, but although they clothed with tolerable grace
the mortal form of Gideon, they did not fit his soul. You saw him
preferably in rusty black, with a hat remotely Spanish, and a cloak;
decidedly the soul of Gideon wore a black cloak. And indeed at this
very moment, within the cottage, Caroline was brushing just such a
cloak preparatory to putting it away forever with beautiful cakes of
gum camphor crumbling like soft and fragrant ice among its mysterious
folds.

Gideon turned and entered the cottage; the rooms appeared deliciously
chilled and shadowed by the green orchard to the east. Avoiding the
larger chamber, where Caroline whisked fantastic garments into the
bland, golden obscurity of a tulip-wood chest of drawers, he turned
into the kitchen and surveyed its cool and ordered colors with minute
approval. It was a room decorous and subtly bright, a place for the
concoction of junkets and cherry pies. Gideon sighed with pleasure; it
was a miracle that he, a lawless, bitter man, should have imagined this
room and made it. Of course there had been the skeleton ready to his
hand--the stone floor, the beams, the fireplace--but he had breathed
upon cold ashes, and they had flowered like a domestic rose.

Caroline had climbed the steep little stairs to the attic; he could
hear portmanteaus bumping about overhead like huge frolicsome beasts;
he had a sudden picture of the trim, pink-faced servant surrounded by
portmanteaus and kit-bags, labeled in dusty, barbaric scarlet, enormous
in the gloom. He reflected with satisfaction that all his papers
were already neatly pigeon-holed in his grandfather’s desk and his
mother’s boule cabinet; Caroline was merely rummaging among ponchos and
sombreros.

Slowly, with a fastidious, yet sensual, savoring of his delights,
Gideon entered the other room and strolled down its entire length,
stopping here and there to touch the lovely surface of wood perversely
satin-skinned, or velvet worn and rosy as immemorial lichen. Here
again was something more than human in the happy confluence of various
times and manners; he had seen these objects scattered in obscure
exile among the Victorian ineptitudes of his mother’s vast drawing
rooms, or lately huddled ignominiously in storage warehouses; he had
purchased some of them carelessly at the ragged ends of the earth, and
now they were gathered together under the green and glazing twilight of
the apple trees to make a miraculous whole. He had bought a cottage,
knocked down a partition or two, and engaged a certain number of
pantechnicon vans; he had expected the place to be comfortable and
rather absurd, and by some curious necromancy of chance it was grave
and exquisite. It was as if it had always been so, and his. Between
open windows, his desk was flooded by calm radiance.

As he fingered the firmly packed bundles of letters, bound with
pink legal tape, or more sentimentally confined by blue ribbons, he
considered the future with approval. It was eminently fitting; it was,
indeed, inevitable. How, save under conditions of the most shining
peace, could he hope to relax into that judicial clarity of mind so
necessary to his great project? The hardships, the astringent horrors
of his past career, had precisely steeled his hand to execution; it
now remained for a poor, but honest, gentleman to judge the culprits
before killing them, and Gideon was acutely aware of the propriety of
being equitable to begin with, if only to augment the pleasure of being
savage in the final sentence, the final act of revenge.

He stared retrospectively down the lurid vista of the last twenty-five
years, his mind’s eye blinking, for all its falcon look, in the full
chemical glare of recollection. There had been, quite literally,
singularly little sunlight in the vista, and that little had quivered
to a tropical intensity removed by several continents from this
subaqueous glimmer stained by apple trees. But mostly, he remembered,
things had happened at night; that was, perhaps, the reason he
had achieved so flattering and profitable a reputation as special
correspondent.

Special! Oh, very special indeed! For who but Gideon would have been
clever enough to be forever on the spot, the often bloody and unhealthy
spot, where things were happening at night? What other nocturnal
vigilance had so well observed, what vitriolic pen recorded, alike the
curious minutiæ and the vast apocalypse of life? From the beginning to
the end of that bewildering vista he had contrived to see the event
strangely, and to make the strangeness vivid by his words. Also, he
had advanced in wisdom and cunning; he recalled with contempt how
crudely he had daubed hell-fire and sanguine upon his earlier efforts.
In ninety-eight, when he had seen the _Maine_ intemperately uncurl a
million fronds of brilliance against the plushy dark, he could not,
telling the dreadful thing beheld, curdle the reader’s veins as now his
lightest, coolest whisper curdled them. The latest of all his writings,
the wry, amused account of Lenine stretched upon his crimson upholstery
under the great glass bell like some horrible wax flower, blooming
through unnatural, and electric, days, that was excellent, that was art.


                                   II

And now, the quarter-century past, he was quit of restraints, of
delicacies and decencies; now he was free of galling secret vows
and public scruples. The very last of the Pennimans had died twenty
years ago in the person of old Joseph; Gideon had kept his promise to
Millicent, and Millicent herself had been dead for twenty-five years.

He was free to turn that intricate and fiery engine, his mind, upon the
people he had hated and had, for a measured space of time, striven to
forget. At first, after his wife’s death, he had acidly regretted his
promise to her--the promise given to the expiring appeal of her large
blue eyes, but never ratified by their wedded spirits in this world
or the vaguer one into whose ambiguities she had at once departed. He
had kept the promise because it was a promise; he had been totally
untrammeled by sympathy for its purpose or its beneficiaries. He had
spared the Pennimans for a score of years; he had not written a book,
no, not so much as an epitaph upon any of them until two decades had
yellowed the latest of their tombs. It had been a hellish bore, but
now he was glad he had refrained. The long and lenten abstinence from
revenge had but given edge to his appetite and sharpened his powers to
austere perfection.

Gideon drew a dozen slim and pointed pencils from a drawer of the desk;
upon its dark-amber surface he placed a formidable pile of copy paper.
The book loomed before his happy contemplation, tremendous, Protean,
monstrous, yet alluring. A book, but not alone a book; a mighty chase,
a dexterous unmasking, a trial, and an execution. And Gideon, at once
Justice incarnate and the instrument of Justice, Gideon must be both
judge and executioner. The book was to be a headsman’s ax, savage,
medieval, elegant, and efficient. Then, picturing a row of Penniman
faces upon the spikes of Temple Bar, Gideon smiled a slight abstemious
smile.

Apart from fancies, however charming, the facts were these; he reviewed
them swiftly, leaning back luxuriously in a chair whose polished curves
were as velvet to his neuralgic bones. The book was a debt to his own
soul, long overdue, heavy with accretion of interest. He had waited,
for Millicent’s darling and ridiculous sake, until all kith and kin
of hers were moldered into complete indifference. She had desired to
shield them from anger and annoyance, for surely their fatted, gelded
souls were incapable of pain; she had interposed her threadbare little
body between their torpor and his vengeance. Very well; it had been so,
but now he would remember it all, and set it down, and verily the page
should shrivel beneath the fire of his revelation. Though they skulked
in their sepulchers, shrouded in this their last cowardice, he would
burn them out of oblivion; the flame of their destruction should ascend
forever, purified and fervent, sweet in the nostrils of the brave. He
would tell the tale; he would release that holy indignation which for
so long had made his heart a fever.

Milly--that foolish nickname wherein her family, with characteristic
impertinence, had clothed the golden pallor of her girlhood! If Gideon
pronounced her name, he enriched the vowels with a foreign inflection
which made it more Melisande than Millicent. That was her proper
appellation, that long soft veil of sound, fitting her sallow-flaxen
beauty with an enduring garment.

She, who had lain so long asleep in his heart, should be brought forth
once more into the wide, bright chamber of his mind; he would look
at her in the unpitying glare of that illumination. She would stand,
willowy and disarming, lovely and ineffectual, beside the solid, stolid
forms of her murderers, the Pennimans. Gideon would look at them all;
the Pennimans would tremble and grow pale, they would even grow thin
perhaps; Millicent would smile. It would not be the smile of her later
days, painted narrow and colorless by despair; it would be the smile of
the beginning, of hope and casual courage and unconsidered joy. Gideon
ground his teeth, thinking how the Pennimans had destroyed her gaiety
and trust. She had loved her father and mother; she had even loved the
unspeakable Ambrose, with his long nose and liquid, languid eyes; by
love she had been broken and undone.

Of course they had opposed the match; they were obstructive by instinct
and conviction, and Gideon, who had refused to be a barrister in order
to write for the lesser journals, was sufficiently above them in family
and below them in fortune to irritate their every prejudice. His wit
inflamed their mental tissues like cayenne pepper; his tongue was gall
and vinegar. They resented his height and were half afraid of his
hair, which was never properly brushed; he seemed an enigma designed
to insult them; his doing could not be other than wrong, but his mere
being was the radical error. Gideon knew that, and the reflection
soothed him; it meant that he had always, even without trying, done his
best to please them: his best must always fail with the Pennimans, and
he was glad he had not tried too hard. Millicent had tried too hard,
and, in foredoomed endeavor, been destroyed.

He had been a strange son-in-law for the Pennimans; he had fluttered
that dove-cote with a vengeance. Fat pigeons they were, and Ambrose
with the melting gaze of a turtle above his little waistcoat’s curve.
And Millicent among them, white and fluttering, with her perpetual
olive branch: she was truly a dove!

Without the Pennimans, pecking and obese, how far might they not have
flown together, Gideon and Millicent, the falcon and the dove! God
knew she had always wanted to be free; God had known it all along,
in fact, and that was Gideon’s quarrel with God, second only to his
quarrel with the Pennimans. For the Deity, frequently invoked by that
pious family, had apparently been moved by their flatteries rather than
by Gideon’s dignified silence; God had not saved Millicent even at the
last minute: he had, by allowing her to die, given her back to the
Pennimans. Gideon, who had never believed in God, found this impossible
to forgive; in his indignation he realized that he was a Christian.

The Pennimans, outrageous to the last, had always blamed him for his
wife’s death; they had pecked her into shreds while he was cynically
examining the Spanish-American War. They had not even taken the
trouble to cable news of her illness; he had returned to find her _in
extremis_. Gideon was frantic; the Pennimans were sorrowful and mildly
complacent. They expressed surprise at his reappearance, and disgust at
what they were pleased to term his neglect. Millicent had, apparently,
been killed by the absence of a husband whose presence had always,
according to the Pennimans, constituted a criminal menace to her health
and sanity. The bronze door of the Penniman vault shut firmly upon her
mortal remains; the family, in solemn conclave, decided that Gideon was
sailing for South Africa with Milly’s blood upon his hands. Gideon knew
that their own hands were dabbled in her innocence.

Gideon found the South African War a personal convenience, but against
the Pennimans he was very bitter, and his amazing despatches, colored
and brilliant with hate, were only a partial relief to his feelings.
He found it impossible to dislike the Boers with the authentic fervor
so desirable in a special correspondent; quite deliberately he dipped
his pen into his private gall before writing, and his passionate
loathing for a respectable family at Wimbledon fired half England to
a pure flame of patriotism. But it was all very unsatisfactory and
rather troublesome, this inner pretense that Cronje and Wessels were in
reality Mrs. Penniman and Ambrose. His despatches were devoured raw by
the popular appetite, but he himself went hungry; he starved for his
revenge. Gideon, remembering those days, laughed heartily. How fierce
he had been, and how frustrate!

The sunlight fell across his dusky golden desk, and still he
remembered, and did not write. That was twenty-five years ago, and
this was England, and he was old, but neither frustrate nor starving.
The Gideon of the Transvaal had been a widowed Gideon of forty-odd,
bereaved and raging--a Gideon who had but just observed the wife of
his romantic youth go down to the grave shrunken to premature decay,
quenched in body and soul, the clear flame withered, the bright stem
trodden underfoot. For a long and parching term of years he had beheld
her obliquely in the flawed mirror of her dying face; later he had shut
his eyes while she slept in his heart. Now he looked at her again, in
the cool and blessed light of these windows, in the peace of this quiet
room; she was a girl again, and beautiful. But Millicent had always
been beautiful.

It was the other Pennimans who had been ugly; how ugly he shuddered to
recall. He drew a packet of papers toward him. These were photographs
of the criminals, letters from Milly, letters from Ambrose, his own
wild scrawls. Gideon adjusted his spectacles.


                                  III

At seven o’clock Caroline lit the lamp; it was a pale unluminous yellow
against the western window-panes, where rose color was fading. Half an
hour later she placed a small tray at Gideon’s elbow; the noiseless
hand was also skilful, for the cutlet was done to a turn, the coffee
superlative. Gideon ate and drank, thanking the stars now set in
chrysoprase above the apple trees. At nine he put down the last of the
letters, and, lifting one of the photographs, examined it intently. A
curious trembling seized him; he appeared a prey to obscure emotions,
and his face was visibly convulsed.

The picture, a highly glazed _carte-de-visite_ of the eighties, showed
a family group augmented by one stranger: it showed, clearly enough,
the four Pennimans and Gideon. There, seated side by side, were old
Joseph and his wife; at their feet was Ambrose; behind them, poised
as if for flight, the less substantial forms of Gideon and Millicent
wavered against a painted frieze of foliage. The faces were remarkably
distinct--distinct as the golden syllables of Harrogate bitten into
grayish cardboard below them.

The photograph completed at a single shattering blow the annihilation
of Gideon’s hard-won calm. The tears poured from his eyes upon the
glassy countenance of Ambrose while Gideon laughed and laughed.

Here, presented upon a little slip of grimy cardboard, was the whole
stupendous farce; the farce was here reduced to such miniature
proportions that the human eye could grasp it and the human
understanding contain it without effort. During the last three hours,
while letter after letter passed into the relentless illumination of
his mind, Gideon had gradually perceived the outlines of this farce;
they were at first too huge for his comprehension. But now, under the
complacent glow of the lamp, the picture made them very plain, very
clear and definite.

The Pennimans were funny, and he was a fool. They had always been
funny, and he had always been a blazing fool not to see it. They were
harmless and absurd; anyone with eyes in his head could see that now.
Joseph was funny and innately charming; a perfect Cruikshank portrait
of a blustering, heavy father born fifty years too late. Mrs. Penniman
was funny and pathetic and rather a dear; yes, she was entirely a dear,
with her cotton-wool hair and her face like a frightened baby’s. And
Ambrose was funny, and--well, Ambrose was enormously funny; Gideon left
it at that. As for Millicent and Gideon, they were funniest of all;
they were, he realized, tremendous.

There was Milly--and oh, how right the Pennimans had been to call her
Milly! There she was, in her famous green silk frock from Liberty’s,
looking like a Du Maurier drawing executed not in ink, but in China
tea, the sweet little ghost of a Du Maurier drawing. How sweet she
looked, and how extraordinarily silly! Yes, of course, that was the
word; that was precisely it--silly Milly, adorably silly Milly,
clinging to the arm of her devoted young husband. To the stalwart arm?
Perhaps not quite to the stalwart arm, but at least to the protecting
arm of a fiercely possessive Gideon in the first of all the black
cloaks, with the biggest and blackest of all the sombreros pulled down
over smoldering eyes, whose expression was accurately compounded of
love for his bride and haughty malevolence for the rest of the world.
Which meant, mostly, the Pennimans. No wonder poor Ambrose lifted his
own eyes in alarm to the face of his tall brother-in-law.

Was it possible that he had ever believed himself a suitable husband
for that delightful little idiot in green silk and Italian corals who
was so obviously made of pink sugar candy? Both sun and rain must
inevitably melt the pretty creature; the chills and ardors of common
life must reduce her to crumbs of sugary dust. Brittle and soft and
sweet, Milly was always sweet. Oh, he had loved her right enough, and
she had loved him; but Milly had loved every one, and Gideon had loved
no one but Milly.

Was it possible that he had ever expected the Pennimans to understand
his plans, his ambitions, for Milly and himself? He laughed again to
remember the mixture of frigid courtesy and contempt with which he had
invariably met their suggestions and advice. He might as well have worn
a black mask in addition to the outrageous sombrero for all he had
ever let them see of his thoughts or intensities of feeling. Not that
it mattered; he was such piercing vinegar to their emollient oil. It
was nobody’s fault: they were all of them good and kind; Milly was an
angel, a sugar angel; and the young, thin, eager Gideon no more than
an impulsive and infatuated fool. What a fool he had been to burden
himself with such confectionery! What a fool she had been to entrust
herself to his hot and sticky grasp! It was a miracle that they had
survived so long in each other’s strange company.

Gideon again bent his falcon gaze upon the photograph, and his laughter
was quenched in pity. The people in the picture were all so ridiculous
and serious and profoundly innocent, and now he might laugh at them as
much as he liked. He could never laugh with them, and it was nobody’s
fault.

And the book? Gone, like a gorgeous thundercloud, tiger-streaked, into
profound oblivion. Dead, like the Pennimans, who, in its death, were
prodigally revenged.

Gideon stooped, and set a match to the fire. It flew upward like a
sanguine flower, and the room was roseate instead of amber-yellow in
the lamplight. Its colors glowed from new planes and facets; its shapes
were subtly altered and enhanced. Caroline came in quietly with the
whisky and soda.

Presently Gideon rose, and lit his pipe. A tall and solitary figure, he
stood gazing into the lambent mystery of the fire; he sighed gently.

“I suppose I shall have to learn to dislike my neighbors,” he told
himself in a low voice. “One might write a grim realistic novel about
those squat dark people at Skatt’s Farm.”

But at the back of his mind was a sick conviction that they were
probably quite pleasant, harmless people, and after a little while he
took his candlestick from the hall table and went upstairs to bed.

He jumped very quickly between the cool sheets, and fell asleep trying
hard to hate the squat dark people at Skatt’s Farm. But the dreadful
part of it was that Gideon could not hate them.


FOOTNOTES:

     [20] Copyright, 1925, by The Century Company.
          Copyright, 1926, by Elinor Wylie.




                      THE YEARBOOK OF THE AMERICAN
                               SHORT STORY

                    OCTOBER, 1924, TO SEPTEMBER, 1925




                              ABBREVIATIONS


                             I. PERIODICALS

  _A. D._             Arts and Decoration.
  _A. Merc._          American Mercury.
  _A. W._             All’s Well.
  _Adv._              Adventure.
  _Ain._              Ainslee’s Magazine.
  _Am._               American Magazine.
  _Am. B._            American Boy.
  _Am. H._            American Hebrew.
  _Asia_              Asia.
  _Atl._              Atlantic Monthly.
  _B. E. T._          Boston Evening Transcript.
  _Blue Bk._          Blue Book Magazine.
  _B’nai_             B’nai B’rith Magazine.
  _Book. (N. Y.)_     Bookman. (New York.)
  _Books_             Books. (New York Herald-Tribune.)
  _C. D. N._          Chicago Daily News.
  _C. E. P._          Chicago Evening Post Review of Books.
  _C. G._             Country Gentleman.
  _C. R. Rep._        Cedar Rapids Republican.
  _Cath. W._          Catholic World.
  _Cen._              Century Magazine.
  _Charm_             Charm.
  _Chic. Trib._       Chicago Tribune Syndicate Service.
  _Col._              Collier’s Weekly.
  _Com._              Commonweal.
  _Cos._              Cosmopolitan.
  _D. D._             Double Dealer.
  _Day_               The Day.
  _Dear. Ind._        Dearborn Independent.
  _Del._              Delineator.
  _Des._              Designer.
  _Dial_              Dial.
  _Echo_              Echo.
  _Elks_              Elks Magazine.
  _Ev._               Everybody’s Magazine.
  _F. F._             Farm and Fireside.
  _For._              Forum.
  _Fron._             Frontier.
  _Gal._              Golden Galleon.
  _G. H._             Good Housekeeping. (New York.)
  _Gol._              Golden Book.
  _Guar. (Am.)_       Guardian. (Philadelphia.)
  _H. C._             Hue and Cry.
  _Harp. B._          Harper’s Bazaar.
  _Harp. M._          Harper’s Magazine.
  _Hear_              Hearst’s International.
  _Hol._              Holland’s Magazine.
  _I. A._             Inter-America.
  _I. L. M._          Iowa Literary Magazine.
  _Ind._              Independent.
  _Int._              International Book Review.
  _Int. Arts_         International Arts.
  _J. F._             Jewish Forum.
  _J. T._             Jewish Tribune.
  _L. H. J._          Ladies’ Home Journal.
  _L. Rev._           Literary Review of the New York Evening Post.
  _Leonardo_          Leonardo.
  _Lit. R._           Little Review.
  _Liv. A._           Living Age.
  _Ly._               Liberty.
  _McC._              McClure’s Magazine.
  _McCall_            McCall’s Magazine.
  _MacF._             MacFadden Fiction-Lover’s Magazine.
  _MacL._             MacLean’s Magazine.
  _Men. J._           Menorah Journal.
  _Mid._              Midland.
  _Mod. Q._           Modern Quarterly.
  _Mod. R._           Modern Review.
  _Mun._              Munsey’s Magazine.
  _N. A. Rev._        North American Review.
  _N. Rep._           New Republic.
  _N. Y. Sun_         New York Sun.
  _N. Y. Times_       New York Times Book Review.
  _N. Y. Trib._       New York Herald-Tribune.
  _Nat. (N. Y.)_      Nation. (New York.)
  _O. R._             Open Road.
  _Opp._              Opportunity.
  _Outl.(N. Y.)_      Outlook. (New York.)
  _Pear. (Am.)_       Pearson’s Magazine. (Chicago.)
  _Pict. R._          Pictorial Review.
  _Pop._              Popular Magazine.
  _Red. Bk._          Red Book Magazine.
  _Rev._              Reviewer.
  _S. E. P._          Saturday Evening Post.
  _S. S._             Smart Set. (New York.)
  _S. W._             Southwest Review.
  _Sat. R._           Saturday Review of Literature. (New York.)
  _Scan_              American-Scandinavian Review.
  _Scr._              Scribner’s Magazine.
  _Sea._              Sea Stories Magazine.
  _Sh. St._           Short Stories.
  _Strat._            Stratford Monthly.
  _Sun._              Sunset Magazine.
  _Tr._               Transatlantic Review.
  _Tri._              Trident.
  _V. F._             Vanity Fair.
  _Va._               Virginia Quarterly Review.
  _W. H. C._          Woman’s Home Companion.
  _W. M._             Worker’s Monthly.
  _W. T._             Weird Tales.
  _W. W._             Woman’s World.
  _W. Tom._           World Tomorrow.
  _Wave_              Wave.
  _World_             New York World.
  _Y. I._             Young Israel.
  _Yale_              Yale Review.
  (161)               Page 161.
  (2:161)             Volume 2, Page 161.


                                II. BOOKS

  _Aces_              Aces.
  _Aces B._           More Aces.
  _Aiken_             Aiken. Bring! Bring!
  _Arlen C._          Arlen. Mayfair.
  _Aumonier C._       Aumonier. Overheard.
  _Austin B._         Austin. “13.”
  _Austin C._         Austin. William Austin, the Creator of Peter Rugg.
  _Barbey_            Barbey d’Aurevilly. The Diaboliques.
  _Becke C._          Becke. Yorke the Adventurer.
  _Bennett_           Bennett. Elsie and the Child.
  _Bierce C._         Bierce. The Monk and the Hangman’s Daughter.
  _Boyd B._           Boyd. Points of Honor.
  _Bramah B._         Bramah. The Specimen Case. (English edition.)
  _Buck_              Buck. Afterglow.
  _Busch_             Busch. Selected Czech Tales.
  _Cabell E._         Cabell. Straws and Prayer-Books.
  _Child B._          Child. Fresh Waters.
  _Cobb F._           Cobb. Alias Ben Alibi.
  _Colette_           Colette. Cats, Dogs and I.
  _Connell C._        Connell. Variety.
  _Conrad B._         Conrad. Tales of Hearsay.
  _Contact_           Contact Collection of Contemporary Writers.
  _Coppard C._        Coppard. Fishmonger’s Fiddle.
  _Copy B._           Copy, 1925.
  _Corvo_             Corvo. In His Own Image.
  _Cotton_            Cotton. Wall-Eyed Caesar’s Ghost.
  _Dargan_            Dargan. Highland Annals.
  _Eaton A._          Eaton. The Best Continental Short Stories of
                        1923–24.
  _Eaton B._          Eaton. The Best French Short Stories of 1923–24.
  _Finger C._         Finger. Bushrangers.
  _Flaubert_          Flaubert. Three Tales.
  _Fox_               Fox. Il Conte.
  _Freeman_           Freeman. The Freeman Book.
  _French K._         French. Great Sea Stories. Second Series.
  _Galsworthy D._     Galsworthy. Caravan. (English Edition.)
  _Georgian C._       Georgian Stories, 1925.
  _Gobineau_          Gobineau. Five Oriental Tales.
  _Gonzales A._       Gonzales. The Captain.
  _Gonzales B._       Gonzales. Laguerre.
  _Gorky D._          Gorky. Story of a Novel.
  _Gray_              Gray, “Dawgs.”
  _Harper_            Harper. Harper Prize Short Stories.
  _Hartley_           Hartley. Night Fears.
  _Harwood_           Harwood. Judgment Eve. (English edition.)
  _Hastings_          Hastings, Clough, and Mason. Short Stories.
  _Hearn B._          Hearn. Japanese Fairy Tales.
  _Hemingway B._      Hemingway. In Our Time.
  _Herrick_           Herrick. Wanderings.
  _Howard_            Howard. Three Flights Up.
  _Hummel_            Hummel. Subsoil.
  _Humphrey A._       Humphrey. The Best Love Stories of 1924.
  _Ibáñez B._         Blasco Ibáñez. The Old Woman of the Movies.
  _Jacqueline_        Jacqueline, and other Stories.
  _Jewett_            Jewett. Best Stories.
  _Komroff_           Komroff. Komroff. The Grace of Lambs.
  _Kuprin C._         Kuprin. Gambrinus.
  _Lawrence C._       Lawrence. St. Mawr.
  _Lynch_             Lynch. The Best Ghost Stories.
  _Macardle_          Macardle. Earth-Bound.
  _Machen B._         Machen. The Shining Pyramid.
  _Mann_              Mann. Death in Venice.
  _Mansfield D._      Mansfield. The Little Girl.
  _Maupassant J._     Maupassant. The Horla.
  _Maupassant K._     Maupassant. Saint Anthony.
  _Mayne B._          Mayne. Inner Circle. (English Edition.)
  _New Dec. D._       New Decameron. Volume 4.
  _Newman_            Newman. The Short Story’s Limitations.
  _O’Brien L._        O’Brien and Cournos. The Best British Short
                        Stories of 1924.
  _O’Brien M._        O’Brien and Cournos. The Best British Short
                        Stories of 1925.
  _O’Brien N._        O’Brien. The Best Short Stories of 1924.
  _O’Flaherty_        O’Flaherty. Spring Sowing. (English edition.)
  _Ogawa_             Ogawa. Rose and Witch and other Stories.
  _O’Shaughnessy_     O’Shaughnessy. Married Life.
  _Osip_              Flying Osip: Stories of New Russia.
  _Peterkin_          Peterkin. Green Thursday.
  _Pilniak_           Pilniak. Tales of the Wilderness.
  _Poole B._          Poole. The Little Dark Man.
  _Prize F._          O. Henry Memorial Award. Prize Stories of 1924.
  _Remizov_           Remizov. The Clock.
  _Rhys B._           Rhys and Dawson-Scott. Twenty-Three Stories by
                        Twenty and Three Authors.
  _Rice_              Rice. Winners and Losers.
  _Robinson_          Robinson. Contemporary Short Stories.
  _Sackville-West B._ Sackville-West. Seducers in Ecuador.
  _Seitz_             Seitz. Monogatari.
  _Sitwell_           Sitwell. Triple Fugue.
  _Smith_             Smith. The Little Karoo.
  _Squire_            Squire. The Grub Street Nights’ Entertainment.
  _Street B._         Street. Mr. Bisbee’s Princess.
  _Van Dyke_          Van Dyke. Half-Told Tales.
  _Verga_             Verga. Little Novels of Sicily.
  _Verhaeren_         Verhaeren. Five Tales.
  _Watson_            Grant Watson. Innocent Desires.
  _World_             Johnston. The World’s Best Short Stories of 1925.




                         ADDRESSES OF MAGAZINES
                        PUBLISHING SHORT STORIES


                          I. AMERICAN MAGAZINES

  Adventure, Spring and Macdougal Streets, New York City.
  Ainslee’s Magazine, 79 Seventh Avenue, New York City.
  All’s Well, Gayeta Lodge, Fayetteville, Ark.
  American Boy, 142 Lafayette Boulevard, Detroit, Mich.
  American Hebrew, 19 West 44th Street, New York City.
  American Magazine, 250 Park Avenue, New York City.
  American Mercury, 730 Fifth Avenue, New York City.
  American-Scandinavian Review, 25 West 45th Street, New York City.
  Argosy All-Story Weekly, 280 Broadway, New York City.
  Asia, 627 Lexington Avenue, New York City.
  Atlantic Monthly, 8 Arlington Street, Boston, Mass.
  Blue Book Magazine, 36 South State Street, Chicago, Ill.
  Bookman, 244 Madison Avenue, New York City.
  Catholic World, 120 West 60th Street, New York City.
  Century Magazine, 353 Fourth Avenue, New York City.
  Charm, 50 Bank Street, Newark, N. J.
  Chicago Tribune, Chicago, Ill.
  Collier’s Weekly, 250 Park Avenue, New York City.
  Cosmopolitan, 119 West 40th Street, New York City.
  Country Gentleman, Independence Square, Philadelphia, Pa.
  Delineator, Spring and Macdougal Streets, New York City.
  Designer, 12 Vandam Street, New York City.
  Dial, 152 West 13th Street, New York City.
  Double Dealer, 810 Baronne Street, New Orleans, La.
  Echo, 1837 Champa Street, Denver, Colorado.
  Elks’ Magazine, 50 East 42d Street, New York City.
  Everybody’s Magazine, Spring and Macdougal Streets, New York City.
  Farm and Fireside, 250 Park Avenue, New York City.
  Forum, 247 Park Avenue, New York City.
  Frontier, Garden City, Long Island, N. Y.
  Good Housekeeping, 119 West 40th Street, New York City.
  Guardian, 720 Locust Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
  Harper’s Bazar, 119 West 40th Street, New York City.
  Harper’s Magazine, 49 East 33d Street, New York City.
  Holland’s Magazine, Dallas, Texas.
  Hue and Cry, Woodstock, N. Y. (In summer months only.)
  Independent, 9 Arlington Street, Boston, Mass.
  International Arts, 3 Christopher Street, New York City.
  Jewish Tribune, Marbridge Building, New York City.
  Ladies’ Home Journal, Independence Square, Philadelphia, Pa.
  Liberty, 247 Park Avenue, New York City.
  Little Review, 27 West 8th Street, New York City.
  McCall’s Magazine, 236 West 37th Street, New York City.
  McClure’s Magazine, 80 Lafayette Street, New York City.
  MacLean’s Magazine, 143 University Avenue, Toronto, Ont., Canada.
  Menorah Journal, 167 West 13th Street, New York City.
  Midland, Care of Mr. John T. Frederick, Iowa City, Iowa.
  Modern Quarterly, 318 North Exeter Street, Baltimore, Md.
  Munsey’s Magazine, 280 Broadway, New York City.
  New Republic, 421 West 21st Street, New York City.
  Open Road, 284 Boylston Street, Boston, Mass.
  Opportunity, 127 East 23d Street, New York City.
  Outlook, 381 Fourth Avenue, New York City.
  Pearson’s Magazine, 157 East Ohio Street, Chicago, Ill.
  Pictorial Review, 216 West 39th Street, New York City.
  Popular Magazine, 79 Seventh Avenue, New York City.
  Red Book Magazine, North American Building, Chicago, Ill.
  Reviewer, Chapel Hill, N. C.
  Saturday Evening Post, Independence Square, Philadelphia, Pa.
  Scribner’s Magazine, 597 Fifth Avenue, New York City.
  Sea Stories Magazine, 79 Seventh Avenue, New York City.
  Short Stories, Garden City, Long Island, N. Y.
  Southwest Review, Dallas, Texas.
  Sunset, 460 Fourth Street, San Francisco, Cal.
  Woman’s Home Companion, 250 Park Avenue, New York City.
  Woman’s World, 107 South Clinton Street, Chicago, Ill.
  World Tomorrow, 104 East 9th Street, New York City.


                     II. BRITISH AND IRISH MAGAZINES

  Adelphi, 18 York Buildings, Adelphi, London, W. C. 2.
  Blackwood’s Magazine, 37 Paternoster Row, London, E. C. 4.
  Blue Magazine, 115 Fleet Street, London, E. C. 4.
  Bystander, Graphic Buildings, Whitefriars, London, E. C. 4.
  Calendar, 1 Featherstone Buildings, High Holborn, London, W. C. 1.
  Cassell’s Magazine, La Belle Sauvage, Ludgate Hill, London, E. C. 4.
  Chamber’s Journal, 38 Soho Square, London, W. C. 1.
  Colour Magazine, 53 Victoria Street, London, S. W. 1.
  Corner Magazine, La Belle Sauvage, Ludgate Hill, London, E. C. 4.
  Cornhill Magazine, 50a Albemarle Street, London, W. 1.
  Coterie, 68 Red Lion Street, London, W. C. 1.
  Criterion, 24 Russell Square, London, W. C. 1.
  Dublin Magazine, 2–5 Wellington Quay, Dublin, Irish Free State.
  Empire Review, Macmillan and Co., Ltd., St. Martin’s Street, London,
    W. C. 2.
  English Life, 9 East Harding Street, London, E. C. 4.
  English Review, 4 Dean’s Yard, Westminster, London, S. W. 1.
  Eve, Great New Street, London, E. C. 4.
  Fortnightly Review, 11 Henrietta Street, London, W. C. 2.
  G. K.’s Weekly, 20–21 Essex Street, Strand, London, W. C. 2.
  Gaiety, 10 Adam Street, Adelphi, London, W. C. 2.
  Grand Magazine, 8–11 Southampton Street, Strand, London, W. C. 2.
  Graphic, Graphic Buildings, Whitefriars, London, E. C. 4.
  Green Magazine, Fleetway House, Farringdon Street, London, E. C. 4.
  Happy Magazine, 8 Southampton Street, Strand, London, W. C. 2.
  Home Magazine, 8 Southampton Street, Strand, London, W. C. 2.
  Hutchinson’s Adventure Story Magazine, 34–36 Paternoster Row, London,
    E. C. 4.
  Hutchinson’s Magazine, 34–36 Paternoster Row, London, E. C. 4.
  Hutchinson’s Mystery Story Magazine, 34–36 Paternoster Row, London,
    E. C. 4.
  Illustrated London News, 172 Strand, London, W. C. 2.
  Irish Statesman, 84 Merrion Square, Dublin, Irish Free State.
  John o’ London’s Weekly, 8 Southampton Street, Strand, London, W. C. 2.
  London Magazine, Fleetway House, Farringdon Street, London, E. C. 4.
  London Mercury, 229 Strand, London, W. C. 2.
  Manchester Guardian, 3 Cross Street, Manchester, England.
  Nash’s and Pall Mall Magazine, 1 Amen Corner, Paternoster Row, London,
    E. C. 4.
  Nation and Athenæum, 10 Adelphi Terrace, London, W. C. 2.
  New Age, 38 Cursitor Street, Chancery Lane, London, E. C. 4.
  New Leader, Napier House, 24–27 High Holborn, W. C. 1.
  New Magazine, La Belle Sauvage, Ludgate Hill, London, E. C. 4.
  New Statesman, 10 Great Queen Street, Kingsway, London, W. C. 2.
  Novel Magazine, 18 Henrietta Street, London, W. C. 2.
  Outlook, 167 Strand, London, W. C. 2.
  Outward Bound, Edinburgh House, 2 Eaton Gate, London, S. W. 1.
  Pearson’s Magazine, 17 Henrietta Street, Covent Garden, London,
    W. C. 2.
  Premier, Fleetway House, Farringdon Street, London, E. C. 4.
  Queen, Bream’s Buildings, London, E. C. 4.
  Quiver, La Belle Sauvage, Ludgate Hill, London, E. C. 4.
  Red Magazine, Fleetway House, Farringdon Street, London, E. C. 4.
  Romance, Long Acre, London, W. C. 2.
  Royal Magazine, 17 Henrietta Street, Covent Garden, London, W. C. 2.
  Saturday Review, 10 King Street, Covent Garden, London, W. C. 2.
  Sketch, 172 Strand, London, W. C. 2.
  Sovereign Magazine, 34–36 Paternoster Row, London, E. C. 4.
  Spectator, 13 York Street, Covent Garden, London, W. C. 2.
  Sphere, Great New Street, London, E. C. 4.
  Story-Teller, La Belle Sauvage, Ludgate Hill, London, E. C. 4.
  Strand Magazine, 8–11 Southampton Street, Strand, London, W. C. 2.
  T. P.’s and Cassell’s Weekly, La Belle Sauvage, Ludgate Hill, London,
    E. C. 4.
  Tatler, 6 Great New Street, London, E. C. 4.
  Time and Tide, 88 Fleet Street, London, E. C. 4.
  Truth, 10 Bolt Court, Fleet Street, London, E. C. 4.
  20-Story Magazine, Long Acre, London, W. C. 2.
  Weekly Westminister, 12 Cursitor Street, Chancery Lane, London,
    E. C. 4.
  Windsor Magazine, Warwick House, Salisbury Square, London, E. C. 4.
  Woman, 34–36 Paternoster Row, London, E. C. 4.
  Yellow Magazine, Fleetway House, Farringdon Street, London, E. C. 4.




                     THE BIOGRAPHICAL ROLL OF HONOR
                        OF AMERICAN SHORT STORIES

                    OCTOBER, 1924, TO SEPTEMBER, 1925


NOTE. _Only stories by American authors are listed. The index figures
1 to 11 prefixed to the name of the author indicate the last Roll of
Honor in which his work has been included. The figure 1 refers to 1914,
the figure 2 to 1915, etc. The Roll of Honor for 1914 appeared in the
volume for 1915. The list excludes reprints._

  ADAMS, DAVID ERNEST. Born in Wilton, New Hampshire, 1891. Educated
     at Phillips-Andover Academy and Dartmouth College. Graduate of
     Union Theological Seminary. Married. Congregational Minister.
     Lives in Ware, Massachusetts.
       “Truth is Stranger----.”

  (10) AIKEN, CONRAD (_for biography, see 1922_).
       Disciple.
       Last Visit.
       Strange Moonlight.

  (10) “ALEXANDER, SANDRA.” (MILDRED ALEXANDER LEWIS.) (_For
   biography, see 1923._)
       Gift.

  (11) ANDERSON, SHERWOOD (_for biography, see 1917_).
       Meeting South.
       Return.

  (6) ANDREWS, MARY RAYMOND SHIPMAN (_for biography, see 1917_).
       Passing the Torch.

  ANTHONY, JOSEPH. Born New York, 1897. B. A., Columbia, 1917.
     Author: “Rekindled Fires,” 1918; “The Gang,” 1921; “The Golden
     Village,” 1924. Began as reporter for the _Newark Evening News_,
     then went into publishing work with Harper and Brothers, the
     National Association of Book Publishers and the Century Company.
     Spent two years in London, 1921–23, as manager of Century
     Company’s foreign office. All writing done in intervals between
     various jobs. Lives in New York City.
       Kill or Cure.

  (11) ASCH, NATHAN (_for biography, see 1924_).
       Gertrude Donovan.

  (11) BEEDE, IVAN (_for biography, see 1924_).
       Haywired.
       Storm.

  (3) BENEFIELD, BARRY. “Was born in a little, old mellow town in
     northeast Texas--oh, yes, there are old towns in Texas--by name
     Jefferson, in the piney woods, against the Louisiana border.
     There was some studying at school, much hunting and fishing down
     the bayou, a little teaching in the country districts, and then
     an ambitious leap to the State University at Austin. Followed
     newspaper work on _The Dallas_ (Texas) _News_ and on _The New
     York Times_. Thus prepared, he began writing advertisements
     and magazine fiction--mixed diet of what is called, foolishly,
     romance and realism. The record to date is some forty or fifty
     short stories, thousands of columns of advertisements and one
     novel, ‘The Chicken-Wagon Family.’ Works in New York City
     (advertisements), lives in Peekskill, New York (fiction).”
       Blocker Locke.
       Fiery Sweetness in the Air.
       Guard of Honor.

  (11) BENÉT, STEPHEN VINCENT (_for biography, see 1920_).
       Harrigan’s Head.

  (11) BERCOVICI, KONRAD (_for biography, see 1920_).
       Beggar of Alcazar.
       Flood.
       Law of the River.
       Millstones.
       Steel Against Steel.
       Storm.
       Tinsel.
       Vineyard.

  BIDDLE, FRANCIS B. Born in Paris, 1886. Educated at Groton School,
     Harvard College, and the Harvard Law School. Formerly private
     secretary to Mr. Justice Holmes of the United States Supreme
     Court. Now Assistant United States Attorney in Philadelphia,
     where he is also engaged in private law practice.
       Aunt Jane’s Sofa.

  BROWN, KENNETH IRVING. Born in Brooklyn, New York, 1896. Educated
     at Rochester public schools and the University of Rochester. In
     naval service during the war. Ph.D. Harvard University, 1924.
     Has had travelling fellowship from Harvard University. Now
     professor of Biblical literature at Stephens College, Columbia,
     Missouri. “‘The Christmas Guest’ relates an actual occurrence,
     but the background has been changed from Greece to Colombia.
     During the war I was for a time on a merchant vessel carrying
     Government cargoes. On one trip we brought home a load of
     lumber from the forests of Colombia, and during the course of
     that loading I visited the lumber camp described in the story.”
       Christmas Guest.

  (10) BURT, MAXWELL STRUTHERS (_for biography, see 1917_).
       Beauty and the Blantons.

  BURTIS, THOMSON.
       Man-Made Mutiny.

  (5) BUTLER, ELLIS PARKER (_for biography, see 1918_).
       Idealist.

  (3) “BYRNE, DONN.” (BRYAN OSWALD DONN-BYRNE.) Born in New York
     City, 1889. Educated at University College, Dublin, and in Paris
     and Leipzig. Married. Author: “Stories Without Women,” 1915;
     “Stranger’s Banquet,” 1919; “The Foolish Matron,” 1920; “The
     Woman God Changed,” 1921; “Messer Marco Polo,” 1921; “The Wind
     Bloweth,” 1922; “The Changeling,” 1923; “Blind Raftery,” 1924;
     “An Untitled Story,” 1925. Lives at Riverside, Connecticut.
       Blue Waves of Tory.

  (10) CABELL, JAMES BRANCH (_for biography, see 1918_).
       Above Paradise.
       Mathematics of Gonfal.

  CARVER, ADA JACK. Born in Natchitoches, Louisiana. Educated at
     the Louisiana Normal College, Judson College, and Columbia
     University. Married. Won first prize in the third short story
     contest held by Harper’s Magazine in 1924. Lives in Louisiana.
     Redbone.

  (11) CLARK, VALMA.
       “Service.”

  (11) COBB, IRVIN S. (_for biography, see 1917_).
       Nobody Sees the Waiter’s Face.
       Principle of the Thing.
       Standing Room Only.

  (11) COHEN, BELLA (_for biography, see 1924_).
       Laugh.
       Yetta’s Fella.

  (10) CORLEY, DONALD (_for biography, see 1923_).
       Manacles of Youth.

  (11) CROWELL, CHESTER T. (_for biography, see 1924_).
       Devil Born in Them.
       Giovanni and the Goddess.
       Mary Fisher’s Philosophy.
       Pariah.

  (11) DELL, FLOYD (_for biography, see 1924_).
       “Hallelujah, I’m a Bum.”

  DICKENSON, MAY FREUD. Born in San Francisco. Educated in New York
     public schools and at Hunter College. Went on the stage and
     later married a mining engineer. Has lived in Alaska, Ontario,
     and India. Now lives in New York City.
       Mouse.

  DINGLE, AYLWARD E. Born in Oxford, England, 1874. Went to sea in
     1899 as apprentice in a sailing ship. Served at sea twenty-two
     years, during that time rising to command of square-riggers and
     steamers. Served in Boxer Rebellion and Boer War. Began writing
     in 1915. Is author of two novels and several hundred short
     stories. Lives in Bermuda, but spends all possible time cruising
     in a seventeen-ton schooner, “Gauntlet,” wherever fancy beckons.
       Blow the Man Down.
       Bound for Rio Grande.

  (11) DOBIE, CHARLES CALDWELL (_for biography, see 1917_).
       Arrested Moment.
       Elder Brother.
       Hands of the Enemy.

  (11) DREISER, THEODORE (_for biography, see 1919_).
       Glory Be! McGlathery.

  DUDLEY, WALBRIDGE.
       Harvest.

  FAGIN, N. BRYLLION. “I am thirty-three years old. Married. I have
     been errand boy, drug clerk, factory worker, government clerk
     at Washington, lecturer and college professor. I have received
     my education in the public and private evening schools of New
     York, at Michigan State College, at Chicago, Columbia, George
     Washington and Johns Hopkins universities. My first paid
     contribution appeared in the _Atlantic Monthly_ in 1918. My name
     did not appear. Since then I have contributed prose and verse to
     many magazines, popular and unpopular.” ‘Short Story Writing:
     An Art or a Trade?’ (Seltzer), 1923. A volume of youthful
     storiettes, ‘Of Love and Other Trifles’ (Rossi-Bryn), 1925. I
     live in Baltimore.
       Buttoned Up.

  FISHER, RUDOLPH. Born in Washington, D. C., 1897. Educated in
     Providence public schools and at Brown University. Graduate of
     the Medical School of Harvard University, 1924. Married. Now
     engaged in medical research at Columbia University, as Fellow of
     the National Research Council.
       City of Refuge.

  (9) FITZGERALD, F. SCOTT (_for biography, see 1922_).
       Absolution.

  (11) GALE, ZONA (_for biography, see 1923)_.
       Dime.

  (9) GEROULD, KATHARINE FULLERTON (_for biography, see 1917_).
       Army with Banners.

  (9) GILKYSON, WALTER (_for biography, see 1922)_.
       Coward’s Castle.

  (9) GRAEVE, OSCAR (_for biography, see 1922)_.
       Ferry Boat.

  GREEN, PAUL. Born on a farm near Lillington, North Carolina. Has
     written stories, sketches, and plays of a section of the Cape
     Fear River country which he calls Little Bethel. At present,
     he is editor of The Reviewer and a member of the faculty of
     the University of North Carolina. Lives at Chapel Hill, North
     Carolina.
       Man Who Died at Twelve O’Clock.

  (2) GREGG, FRANCES.
       Hunch-Back.

  HACKETT, FRANCIS. Born in Kilkenny, Ireland, 1883. Educated at
     Clongowes Wood College, Kildare. Married. Came to America in
     1900. Newspaper work in Chicago, 1906–09. Editor, Chicago
     Evening Post Literary Review, 1909–11. Associate Editor, New
     Republic, 1914–22. Author: “Ireland, a Study in Nationalism,”
     1918; “Horizons,” 1918; “The Invisible Censor,” 1920; “The Story
     of the Irish Nation,” 1922; “Candor,” 1924. Lives in Paris.
       Unshapely Things.

  HALL, JAMES NORMAN.
       Forgotten One.

  (9) HECHT, BEN (_for biography, see 1918_).
       Lindro the Great.

  (11) HEMINGWAY, ERNEST. Born Oak Park, Illinois. Married. Reporter
     on Kansas City Star before the War. Served on Italian Front
     during the War. Wounded, Croce di Guerra. Medaglia D’Argento,
     Valore Militare. Newspaper man in Europe since 1921. Written
     short stories since 1916. Amateur boxer and bull fighter.
     Author: “In Our Time,” 1925. Long story, “The Bull Ring,”
     translated and published serially in Der Querschnitt, 1925.
     Lives in Paris.
       Cross-Country Snow.
       Doctor and the Doctor’s Wife.
       Mr. and Mrs. Elliot.

  HIBBEN, PAXTON. Born in Indianapolis, 1880. Educated at Princeton
     and Harvard. F. R. G. S., F. A. G. S. Admitted to bar, but has
     not practiced law. United States Diplomatic Service, 1905–1912.
     Secretary International Tribunal of Arbitration at The Hague,
     1910. Candidate for Congress, 1914. War correspondent, Collier’s
     Weekly and Associated Press, 1914–1917; Leslie’s Weekly,
     1920–1921. Special correspondent in Russia and Near East of
     Chicago Tribune, London Daily Chronicle, L’Humanité and United
     Press. Enlisted as private in United States Army in 1917;
     captain, 1919; served at G. H. Q., A. E. F. Decorated: Orders of
     St. Stanislas of Russia, Redeemer of Greece, Sacred Treasure of
     Japan. Author: “Constantine I and the Greek People”; “The Famine
     in Russia.” Lives in Indianapolis.
       Young Man with Great Possessions.

  HOUSTON, MARGARET BELLE.
       Gold Picayune.

  HOWARD, SIDNEY. Born in Oakland, California, 1891. Educated at
     the University of California. Studied play-writing at Harvard.
     With the American Ambulance in France and later aviator with
     the rank of captain. Since the War he has been on the staff of
     Life, The New Republic, Collier’s Weekly, International, and
     other magazines. Married. Author: “Swords” (play), 1921; “Three
     Flights Up,” 1924; “Bewitched” (play in collaboration with
     Edward Sheldon), 1924; “They Knew What They Wanted” (play),
     1924; “Lucky Sam McCarver” (play), 1925. Has translated and
     adapted various European plays. Winner of Pulitzer Prize. Lives
     in New York City.
       Such Women as Ellen Steele.

  (7) HUSSEY, L. M. (_for biography, see 1920_).
       Conclusion.
       Reunion.

  (10) JITRO, WILLIAM C. G. (_for biography, see 1922_).
       Holiday.

  (11) KNOWLTON, CLARKE (_for biography, see 1924_).
       Bridegroom.

  (10) KOMROFF, MANUEL. “Born in New York City in 1890 under protest
     but in good humor. Tampered with schools and tried a college
     or two under the impression that education was the mark of a
     gentleman. Discovered his mistake. Travelled far across Siberia
     and parts of China, and edited an English newspaper in Russia
     during the Revolution. Married an Englishwoman in 1918 and tried
     to support her by doing editorial work on newspapers.

     He began writing stories through sheer obstinacy and still has the
     same wife he started with. His first stories appeared in Reedy’s
     Mirror and The Dial after they had been rejected in other
     places, and in the face of everything he still keeps on writing
     when he finds time. He now works for a book publisher, but has
     an agreeable nature though a sharp and quick tongue.

     In spite of his practical jokes his friends like him. He lives like
     a fool and by so doing hopes to die a wise man.”
       Beating of the Reed.
       Grace of Lambs.
       How Does it Feel to be Free?

  (9) LARDNER, RING W. (_for biography, see 1922_).
       Haircut.
       Zone of Quiet.

  (10) LEECH, MARGARET KERNOCHAN (_for biography, see 1923_).
       Little White Village.

  LEHMAN, B. H. Born 1889. Graduate, Harvard, A.B., Ph.D. Associate
     Professor of English in the University of California. Married.
     Lecturer and writer. Novel: “Wild Marriage,” 1925. Residence,
     Berkeley, California.
       Sons.

  (11) LOWELL, AMY (_for biography, see 1924_). Died 1925.
       Conversion of a Saint.

  (10) MARQUAND, JOHN PHILLIPS (_for biography, see 1923_).
       Old Man.

  MARSH, HOWARD R. Born at Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 1893. Educated at
     University of Michigan. Publicity and article work, 1915–1920.
     Travels considerably. Lives at Jackson, Michigan, and Redlands,
     California.
       Rebellion.

  (7) MASON, GRACE SARTWELL (_for biography, see 1920_).
       Gray Spell.

  MATHEUS, JOHN F. Born in Keyser, West Virginia, 1887. Childhood
     passed in Steubenville, Ohio. Educated at Western Reserve
     University and Columbia University. Professor of Romance
     languages in the West Virginia Collegiate Institute since 1923.
     Married. Has travelled widely. Lives at Institute, West Virginia.
       Fog.

  MATHEY, FABYAN. Born in New Jersey, 1903. Educated at Princeton and
     Columbia Universities. At various times in his life has been
     lumberjack, longshoreman, and forest ranger. Is particularly
     interested in music, painting, and French and Scandinavian
     literature. Has been writing for two years--plays, poetry, and
     stories. Lives at Cranford, New Jersey.
       Sunday.

  (11) MONTAGUE, MARGARET PRESCOTT (_for biography, see 1919_).
       Great Theme.

  MOON, LORNA.
       Wantin’ a Hand.

  (11) MORRIS, LAWRENCE S. (_for biography, see 1924_).
       Apples of Gold or Pictures of Silver.

  MOSLEY, JEFFERSON. Born in Texas. Educated at South Western
     University, Texas, and Oxford University. Former Rhodes scholar.
     Taught physics at South Western University, 1912–15. Has been in
     the Civil Service. Is now editor of research publication at the
     United States Forest Products Laboratory, Madison, Wisconsin.
     Won first prize in Forum short story contest, 1924.
       Secret at the Crossroads.

  MULLEN, KATE.
       Interval.

  (10) NICHOLL, LOUISE TOWNSEND (_for biography, see 1919_).
       Green Ice.

  (3) NORRIS, KATHLEEN. Born in San Francisco, 1880. Educated
     privately and at University of California. Married Charles
     G. Norris, the novelist, 1909. Author: “Mother,” 1911; “The
     Rich Mrs. Burgoyne,” 1912; “Poor Dear Margaret Kirby,” 1913;
     “Saturday’s Child,” 1914; “The Story of Julia Page,” 1915;
     “The Heart of Rachael,” 1916; “Martie, the Unconquered,” 1917;
     “Undertow,” 1917; “Josslyn’s Wife,” 1918; “Sisters,” 1919;
     “Harriet and the Piper,” 1920; “The Beloved Woman,” 1921;
     “Certain People of Importance,” 1922; “Butterfly,” 1923; “The
     Callahans and the Murphys,” 1924. Lives on Long Island.
       Masterpiece.

  (8) O’HIGGINS, HARVEY J. (_for biography, see 1919_).
       Love Story of a Silent Man.

  (9) OPPENHEIM, JAMES (_for biography, see 1918_).
       Last Man.

  PARSONS, ALICE BEALE.
       Love at 42 Altgeld Avenue.

  (11) PETERKIN, JULIA (_for biography, see 1924_).
       Maum Lou.
       Sorcerer.

  (6) PRATT, LUCY (_for biography, see 1918_).
       Dark Gate.

  PRUETTE, LORINE. “I was born in Tennessee, November 3, 1896. At an
     early age I acquired the habit of going to school, and I seem to
     have kept it up nearly ever since, finishing--I trust--with a
     doctorate from Columbia University. My book, ‘Women and Leisure,
     A Study of Social Waste,’ was published last year. I have just
     completed a psychological biography of G. Stanley Hall, and my
     next job is to write a book on Industrial Sociology. I am one of
     the editors of ‘Industrial Psychology’ and have contributed to
     various scientific journals. Writing stories and going to the
     theatre are the chief joys of life. ‘Smile of Victory’ is my
     third story to be published. My home is in New York City.”
       Smile of Victory.

  (9) ROBBINS, TOD (_for biography, see 1921_).
       Bit of a Banshee.

  (11) ROBIN, MAX (_for biography, see 1923_).
       Itzikil.

  ROBINSON, ELSIE.
       Misunderstood Husband.

  ROBINSON, ROBERT. Born near Taylor, Texas, 1899. Educated in Texas
     Public Schools and graduated at the University of Arkansas. Has
     worked at a variety of occupations ranging from harvesting to
     school teaching. At present engaged in recreation work as boys’
     supervisor at Mount Vernon, N. Y.
       Ill Wind.

  (11) SHIFFRIN, A. B. (_for biography, see 1924_).
       Other Cheek.
       Trickle of Red.

  (9) SPRINGER, FLETA CAMPBELL (_for biography, see 1917_).
       Legend.

  STANLEY, MAY. (MRS. ELMER BROWN MASON.) Born in a pioneer cabin on
     Puget Sound, Washington. “Never attended school, but studied for
     a few months with an Oxford man when I was twelve years old. He
     taught me more important things than mathematics and history--to
     love trees and the sea and the books written about them.”
     Newspaper worker since 1912, Washington and Minnesota. Came
     to New York City in 1916, magazine work and musical criticism.
     Author: “Fair Weather Cometh,” 1923. Lives in New York City, but
     spends most of the time on the Maine coast.
       Old Man Ledge.

  (11) STEELE, WILBUR DANIEL (_for biography, see 1917_).
       Man Who Saw Through Heaven.
       Sauce for the Goose.
       Six Dollars.
       Thinker.
       When Hell Froze.

  (11) SUCKOW, RUTH (_for biography, see 1923_).
       Golden Wedding.
       Start in Life.

  (10) TARKINGTON, BOOTH (_for biography, see 1918_).
       Shanty.
       ’Thea Zell.

  TAYLOR, ELLEN DU POIS. Born in Huron, South Dakota. Educated at
     Huron College, South Dakota, and Northwestern University. Has
     been a publisher’s proof reader, manager of the Chicago Little
     Theatre, director of the Speakers’ Bureau of the Illinois
     Council of Defense, and has worked with women in politics. Lives
     at Chesterton, Indiana.
       Calico.

  (10) TOOMER, JEAN (_for biography, see 1923_).
       Easter.

  (11) VENABLE, EDWARD CARRINGTON (_for biography, see 1921_).
       Lines on the Portrait of a Lady.

  (11) VORSE, MARY HEATON (_for biography, see 1917_).
       Sand.

  WALDMAN, MILTON. Born in Cleveland, Ohio, U. S. A., 1895. Educated
     at Yale College, 1917. Journalist, New York and Cleveland.
     Assistant editor London Mercury since February, 1924. Author:
     “Americana,” 1925.
       Home Town.

  (11) WESCOTT, GLENWAY (_for biography, see 1924_).
       This Way Out.

  (11) WHARTON, EDITH (_for biography, see 1924_).
       Bewitched.
       Miss Mary Pask.
       Velvet Ear-Muffs.

  (11) WHITMAN, STEPHEN FRENCH (_for biography, see 1924_).
       That Famous Love Affair.

  (11) WILLIAMS, BEN AMES (_for biography, see 1918_).
       Finished Story.

  WILLOUGHBY, BARRETT. “I am an Alaskan, white, Irish, and a Miss
     instead of a Mister. My first home was my father’s trading
     schooner that cruised up and down the shores of Alaska. My
     people now have a trading post in Alaska. I received my
     education in a convent in the States, and from the traders,
     trappers, Indians, explorers, scientists and sea-faring men
     who make of my father’s store a sort of wilderness club in the
     winter. I wanted to tell the world about my country and its
     people, so I borrowed some money and came down to San Francisco
     to begin in 1920. Went broke before my book was done. Became,
     for a year and a half, secretary to Frederick O’Brien, the South
     Sea writer. Then finished my book--‘Where the Sun Swings North,’
     and I’ve been writing for myself ever since.”
       Devil-Drum.

  (9) WOOD, CLEMENT (_for biography, see 1922_).
       Blue Circle.
       Mother.
       Tzagan.

  WYLIE, ELINOR. (MRS. WILLIAM ROSE BENÉT.) Author: “Black Armor”
     (poems), 1923; “Jennifer Lorn,” 1924; and “The Venetian Glass
     Nephew,” 1925. Lives near New York City.
       Gideon’s Revenge.




THE ROLL OF HONOR OF FOREIGN SHORT STORIES IN AMERICAN MAGAZINES

                    OCTOBER, 1924, TO SEPTEMBER, 1925


NOTE. _The index figures from 1 to 11 prefixed to the name of the
author indicate the last Roll of Honor between 1914 and 1924 in which
his work has been included. Thus the figure 1 indicates 1914, the
figure 5 indicates 1918, etc. The Roll of Honor for 1914 appeared in
the volume for 1915._


                      I. BRITISH AND IRISH AUTHORS

  (11) ARLEN MICHAEL (DIKRAN KUYUMJIAN).
       Ace of Thirteens.
       One Gold Coin.

  (11) AUMONIER, STACY.
       Dark Red Roses.

  (11) AUSTIN, F. BRITTEN.
       Battle Piece: New Style.
       On the Flagship.

  BENNETT, ROLF.
       Cask.

  (11) BIBESCO, PRINCESS ELIZABETH.
       “Peronnière Letters.”

  (4) BOTTOME, PHYLLIS.
       Wonder-Child.

  (11) CHESTERTON, GILBERT KEITH.
       Arrow of Heaven.
       Asylum of Adventure.
       Curse of the Golden Cross.
       Man with Two Beards.
       Mirror of Death.
       Song of the Flying Fish.

  (2) COLUM, PADRAIC.
       John Greggins--A Day in His Life.

  (11) COPPARD, A. E.
       Field of Mustard.

  COULDREY, OSWALD.
       Nandi in Pound.

  COULTER, GEOFFREY.
       Decoy.

  (9) DE LA MARE, WALTER.
       Connoisseur.

  (7) ERVINE, ST. JOHN G.
       Mr. Peden Keeps His Cook.

  (10) GALSWORTHY, JOHN.
       Last Card.
       Mummy.
       Water.

  GERHARDI, WILLIAM.
       Big Drum.

  HUGHES, RICHARD.
       Locomotive.
       Poor Man’s Inn.

  (11) HUXLEY, ALDOUS.
       Half Holiday.

  JACOBS, W. W.
       Fickle Woman.
       Something for Nothing.

  (11) KAYE-SMITH, SHEILA.
       Working Man’s Wife.

  (11) KIPLING, RUDYARD.
       Bull that Thought.
       Prophet and the Country.
       Wish House.

  (9) LAWRENCE, D. H.
       Woman Who Rode Away.

  (11) MAUGHAM, W. SOMERSET.
       Man Who Wouldn’t Hurt a Fly.
       Mr. Know-All.

  METCALFE, JOHN.
       Mole.

  MEYNELL, VIOLA.
       Letter.
       Ten Minutes.

  O’FLAHERTY, LIAM.
       Conger Eel.
       Wild Goat’s Kid.

  (11) POWYS, T. F.
       Painted Wagon.

  RICHARDSON, ANTHONY.
       Old Mossy Face.

  (11) WALPOLE, HUGH.
       Old Elizabeth.

  WILLIAMSON, HENRY.
       No Eel for Nog.

  (10) WOOLF, VIRGINIA.
       Miss Ormerod.

  WRYNN, ANTHONY.
       Equinox.


                            II. TRANSLATIONS

  (10) ANDREYEV, LEONID (_Russian_).
       Giant.

  (6) D’ANNUNZIO, GABRIELLE (_Italian_).
       Bells.

  DOSTOEVSKY, FYODOR (_Russian_).
       Christmas Story.

  GOGOL, N. V. (_Russian_).
       Diary of a Madman.

  (11) “GORKY, MAXIM” (_Russian_).
       Hermit.
       Story of a Novel.
       Strange Murderer.

  GOURMONT, REMY DE (_French_).
       Evening Chat.
       Faun.

  (6) JACOBSEN, J. P. (_Danish_).
       Two Worlds.

  MARTORELLO, NOÉ S. (_Argentinian_).
       Pedro.

  (11) SCHNITZLER, ARTHUR (_Austrian_).
       Lieutenant Gustl.

  SILLEN, MARTA AF (_Swedish_).
       Two Sibyls.

  VON HEIDENSTAMM, VERNER (_Swedish_).
       Sigrid the Haughty and Her Wooers.




                THE BEST BOOKS OF SHORT STORIES OF 1925


                           I. AMERICAN AUTHORS

   1. AIKEN. Bring! Bring! Boni and Liveright.
   2. AUSTIN. William Austin. Marshall Jones.
   3. COBB. Alias Ben Alibi. Doran.
   4. FITZGERALD. All the Sad Young Men. Scribner.
   5. Harper Prize Short Stories. 1924. Harper.
   6. HEMINGWAY. In Our Time. Boni and Liveright.
   7. KOMROFF. The Grace of Lambs. Boni and Liveright.
   8. O’BRIEN, FITZJAMES. Collected Stories. A. and C. Boni.


                      II. BRITISH AND IRISH AUTHORS

   9. ARLEN. Mayfair. Doran.
  10. AUMONIER. Overheard. Doubleday, Page.
  11. BECKE. Yorke the Adventurer. Lippincott.
  12. BLACKWOOD. Tongues of Fire. Dutton.
  13. BRAMAH. The Specimen Case. Doran.
  14. CONRAD. Tales of Hearsay. Doubleday, Page.
  15. COPPARD. Fishmonger’s Fiddle. Knopf.
  16. CORVO. In His Own Image. Knopf.
  17. DE LA MARE. Broomsticks. Knopf.
  18. KENNARD. Level Crossings. A. and C. Boni.
  19. LAWRENCE. St. Mawr. Knopf.
  20. LYND. The Mulberry Bush. Minton, Balch.
  21. MACARDLE. Earth-Bound. Harrigan Press.
  22. MACHEN. The Shining Pyramid. Knopf.
  23. MAYNE. Inner Circle. Harcourt, Brace.
  24. MEYNELL. Young Mrs. Cruse. Harcourt, Brace.
  25. SACKVILLE-WEST. Seducers in Ecuador. Doran.
  26. SITWELL. Triple Fugue. Doran.
  27. SMITH. The Little Karoo. Doran.
  28. WATSON. Innocent Desires. Boni and Liveright.


                            III. TRANSLATIONS

  29. BARBEY D’AUREVILLY. The Diaboliques. Knopf.
  30. BLASCO IBÁÑEZ. The Old Woman of the Movies. Dutton.
  31. EATON, _editor_. The Best Continental Short Stories of 1924–25.
        Small, Maynard.
  32. EATON, _editor_. The Best French Short Stories of 1924–25. Small,
        Maynard.
  33. Flying Osip. International Publishers.
  34. GOBINEAU. Five Oriental Tales. Viking Press.
  35. GORKY. The Story of a Novel. Dial Press.
  36. MANN. Death in Venice. Knopf.
  37. MAUPASSANT. Collected Stories (Volumes 10–15). Knopf.
  38. PILNIAK. Tales of the Wilderness. Knopf.
  39. REMIZOV. The Clock. Knopf.
  40. ZWEIG. Passion and Pain. Bernard G. Richards.




        VOLUMES OF SHORT STORIES PUBLISHED IN THE UNITED STATES

                    OCTOBER, 1924, TO SEPTEMBER, 1925


NOTE. _An asterisk before a title indicates distinction. This list
includes single short stories and collections of short stories. Volumes
announced for publication in the autumn of 1925 are listed here,
although in some cases they had not yet appeared at the time this book
went to press._


                           I. AMERICAN AUTHORS

  ABDULLAH, ACHMED. The Swinging Caravan. Brentano’s.
  AIKEN, CONRAD. *Bring! Bring! Boni and Liveright.
  ALLEN, JAMES LANE. *The Landmark. Macmillan.
  ANDERSON, ISABEL. The Kiss and Queue. Four Seas Co.
  ANDREWS, MARY RAYMOND SHIPMAN. Pontifex Maximus. Scribner.
  AUSTIN, WALTER, _editor_. *William Austin, the Creator of Peter Rugg.
    Marshall Jones.
  BAILEY, PAUL. The Man Who Turned Mex. Dorrance.
  BAILEY, TEMPLE. The Holly Hedge. Penn.
  BANNAN, THERESA. Waifs of War. Syracuse, N. Y.: Syracuse Printing and
    Publishing Co.
  BEACH, REX ELLINGWOOD. The Goose Woman and Other Stories. Harper.
  BOYD, THOMAS. *Points of Honor. Scribner.
  BUCK, MITCHELL S. *Afterglow. Frank-Maurice.
  CLARK, BADGER. Spike. Badger.
  COBB, IRVIN S. *Alias Ben Alibi. Doran.
  COHEN, OCTAVUS ROY. Bigger and Blacker. Little, Brown.
  COLLINS, CHARLES. The Sins of Saint Anthony. Covici.
  CONNELL, RICHARD. *Variety. Minton, Balch. Copy--1925. Appleton.
  COTTON, JANE BALDWIN. *Wall-eyed Cæsar’s Ghost. Marshall Jones.
  DARGAN, OLIVE TILFORD. *Highland Annals. Scribner.
  DE BRA, LEMUEL. Ways that are Wary. Clode.
  FITZGERALD, F. SCOTT. *All the Sad Young Men. Scribner.
  FOX, CHARLES DONALD, _editor_. Il Conte. Charles Renard Co.
  FRENCH, JOSEPH LEWIS, _editor_. Great Pirate Stories--Second Series.
    Brentano’s. Great Sea Stories--Second Series. Brentano’s.
  GLASS, MONTAGUE MARSDEN. Y’Understand. Doubleday, Page.
  GONZALES, AMBROSE E. *Laguerre. Columbia, S. C.: The State Co. *The
    Captain. Columbia, S. C.: The State Co.
  GRAY, CHARLES WRIGHT, _editor_. “Dawgs.” Holt.
  GREENE, L. PATRICK. The Major-Diamond Buyer. Doubleday, Page.
  *Harper Prize Short Stories. Harper.
  HASTINGS, WILLIAM THOMPSON; CLOUGH, BENJAMIN CROCKER, _and_ MASON,
    KENNETH OLIVER, _editors_. *Short Stories. Houghton Mifflin.
  HEMINGWAY, ERNEST. *In Our Time. Boni and Liveright.
  HERRICK, ROBERT. *Wanderings. Harcourt, Brace.
  HUMPHREY, MURIEL MILLER, _editor_. *The Best Love Stories of 1924.
    Small, Maynard.
  JEWETT, SARAH ORNE. *The Best Stories of. 2 vols. Houghton Mifflin.
  JOHNSTON, WILLIAM, _editor_. The World’s Best Short Stories of 1925.
    Doran.
  KENDRICK, ELSIE. The Rip Tide. Stratford.
  KOMROFF, MANUEL. *The Grace of Lambs. Boni and Liveright.
  LA MOTTE, ELLEN N. Snuffs and Butters. Century.
  LARSEN, CAROLINE D. The Goosegirl’s Love Story. Rutland, Vt.:
    Tuttle Co.
  LYTLE, JOHN HORACE. The Story of Jack. Appleton.
  MACMECHAN, ARCHIBALD. Old Province Tales. Doran.
  MOORE, JOHN TROTWOOD. Uncle Wash, his Stories. Cokesbury Press.
  *More Aces. Putnam.
  NOBLE, EDWARD. The Mandarin’s Bell. Houghton Mifflin.
  O’BRIEN, EDWARD J., _editor_. The Best Short Stories of 1924. Small,
    Maynard.
  O’BRIEN, FITZJAMES. *Collected Stories. A. and C. Boni.
  O’SHAUGHNESSY, EDITH. *Married Life. Harcourt, Brace.
  OVERS, W. H. Stories of African Life. E. S. Gorham.
  POE, EDGAR ALLAN. The Best Tales of. Modern Library.
  POOLE, ERNEST. *The Little Dark Man. Macmillan.
  REEVE, ARTHUR B. The Boy Scouts’ Craig Kennedy. Harper. Craig Kennedy
    on the Farm. Harper. Fourteen Points. Harper.
  RICE, ALICE CALDWELL HEGAN, _and_ RICE, CALE YOUNG. Winners and Losers.
    Century.
  ROBINSON, KENNETH ALLEN, _editor_. *Contemporary Short Stories.
    Houghton Mifflin.
  ROYSTER, JAMES FINCH, _editor_. American Short Stories. Scott,
    Foresman.
  RUTLEDGE, ARCHIBALD. Heart of the South. Columbia, S. C.: The
    State Co.
  SALTUS, EDGAR. Purple and Fine Women. Covici.
  SASS, HERBERT RAVENEL. Way of the Wild. Minton, Balch.
  SCHWEIKERT, H. C., _editor_. Short Stories. Harcourt, Brace.
  SOCIETY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES, _editors_. O. Henry Memorial Award.
    Prize Stories of 1924. Doubleday, Page.
  SPARLING, E. EARL. Under the Levee. Scribner.
  STREET, JULIAN. Mr. Bisbee’s Princess. Doubleday, Page.
  URNER, MABEL HERBERT. The Married Life of Helen and Warren. Small,
    Maynard.
  WITWER, H. C. Love and Learn. Putnam.


                      II. British and Irish Authors

  ARLEN, MICHAEL. *Mayfair. Doran.
  AUMONIER, STACY. *Overheard. Doubleday, Page.
  AUSTIN, F. BRITTEN. *Thirteen. Doubleday, Page.
  BECKE, LOUIS. *Yorke the Adventurer. Lippincott.
  BLACKWOOD, ALGERNON. *Tongues of Fire. Dutton.
  BRAMAH, ERNEST. *The Specimen Case. Doran.
  CONRAD, JOSEPH. *Shorter Tales. Doubleday, Page. *Tales of Hearsay.
    Doubleday, Page.
  COPPARD, A. E. *Fishmonger’s Fiddle. Knopf.
  CORVO, FREDERICK, BARON. *In His Own Image. Knopf.
  DE LA MARE, WALTER. *Broomsticks. Knopf.
  DELL, ETHEL M. The Passer-By. Putnam.
  FLETCHER, J. S. The Secret of the Barbican. Putnam.
  GILES, HERBERT A. *Strange Tales from a Chinese Studio. Boni and
    Liveright.
  KENNARD, SIR COLERIDGE. *Level Crossings. A. and C. Boni.
  LAWRENCE, D. H. *St. Mawr. Knopf.
  LYND, SYLVIA. *The Mulberry Bush. Minton, Balch.
  MACARDLE, DOROTHY. *Earthbound. Worcester: Harrigan Press.
  MACHEN, ARTHUR. *The Shining Pyramid. Knopf.
  MCKENNA, STEPHEN. Tales of Intrigue and Revenge. Little, Brown.
  MAYNE, ETHEL COLBURN. *Inner Circle. Harcourt, Brace.
  MEYNELL, VIOLA. *Young Mrs. Cruse. Harcourt, Brace.
  MILFORD, H. S., _editor_. *Selected English Stories. Oxford University
    Press.
  *New Decameron. Volume 4. Brentano’s.
  O’BRIEN, EDWARD J., _and_ COURNOS, JOHN, _editors_. The Best British
    Short Stories of 1925. Small, Maynard.
  OLLIVANT, ALFRED. Boxer and Beauty. Doubleday, Page.
  REDMOND, I. P. The Master’s Vineyard. Herder.
  SACKVILLE-WEST, V. *Seducers in Ecuador. Doran.
  “SAPPER.” The Dinner Club. Doran. Out of the Blue. Doran.
  SITWELL, OSBERT. *Triple Fugue. Doran.
  SMITH, PAULINE. *The Little Karoo. Doran.
  SQUIRE, J. C. The Grub Street Nights’ Entertainments. Doran.
  SUTTON, GRAHAM. Fish and Actors. Brentano’s.
  WATSON, E. L. GRANT. *Innocent Desires. Boni and Liveright.
  WILLIAMSON, HENRY. *Sun Brothers. Dutton.


                            III. Translations

  BANDELLO (_Italian_). *Tragical Tales. Dutton.
  BARBEY D’AUREVILLY, JULES (_French_). *The Diaboliques. Knopf.
  BERLIC-MAZURANIO, I. V. (_Croatian_). Croatian Tales of Long Ago.
    Stokes.
  BLASCO IBÁÑEZ, VICENTE (_Spanish_). *The Old Woman of the Movies.
    Dutton.
  CHIVAS-BARON, CL. (_French_). *Three Women of Annam. Frank-Maurice.
  “COLETTE” (_French_). Cats, Dogs, and I. Holt.
  DUVERNOIS, HENRI, _and others_ (_French_). Jacqueline. Minton, Balch.
  EATON, RICHARD, _editor_. The Best Continental Short Stories of
    1924–25. Small, Maynard. *The Best French Short Stories of 1924–25.
    Small, Maynard.
  *Flying Osip (_Russian_). International Publishers.
  GOBINEAU, JOSEPH ARTHUR, COMTE DE (_French_). *Five Oriental Tales.
    Viking Press.
  GORKY, MAXIM (_Russian_). *The Story of a Novel. Dial Press.
  IBÁÑEZ, VICENTE BLASCO (_Spanish_). _See_ BLASCO IBÁÑEZ, VICENTE.
  KELLER, GOTTFRIED (_German_). *The Fat of the Cat. Harcourt, Brace.
  KUPRIN, ALEXANDRE IVANOVITCH (_Russian_). *Gambrinus and other Stories.
    Adelphi.
  MANN, THOMAS (_German_). *Death in Venice. Knopf.
  MAUPASSANT, GUY DE (_French_). *The Horla. Knopf. *The Little Rogue.
    Knopf.
  OGAWA, MIMEI (_Japanese_). Rose and Witch. Overland Publishing Company.
  PILNIAK, BORIS (_Russian_). Tales of the Wilderness. Knopf.
  REMIZOV, ALEKSEI (_Russian_). The Clock. Knopf.
  RUNG, OTTO (_Danish_). *Shadows that Pass. Appleton.
  SEITZ, DON C., _editor_ (_Japanese_). Monogatari. Putnam.
  TOWNSEND, R. S., _editor_. *Short Stories by Russian Authors. Dutton.
  VICTORIN, M. (_French_). The Chopping Bee. Toronto: Musson.
  ZWEIG, STEFAN (_German_). Passion and Pain. Bernard G. Richards.




           ARTICLES ON THE SHORT STORY IN AMERICAN MAGAZINES

                    OCTOBER, 1924, TO SEPTEMBER, 1925


_Authors of articles are printed in capital letters. For articles in
British and Irish periodicals, see “The Best British Short Stories of
1925.” Unsigned reviews of minor importance are not indexed._



                                    A

  Aakjaer, Jeppe.
      By Waldemar Westergaard. Scan. Nov., ’24. (12:665.)

  AIDLINE-TROMMER, ELBERT.
      Yiddish Short Story. Men. J. Nov.–Dec., ’24. (10:515.)

  AIKEN, CHARLES E.
      James Stephens. Cath. W. Apr. (121:132.)

  Aiken, Conrad.
      By Malcolm Cowley. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Jun. 27. (1:851.)
      By Robert Morss Lovett. N. Rep. Jul. 22. (43:242.)

  ALDEN, STANLEY.
      George Gissing. Books. Feb. 22. (11.)

  ALDERMAN, EDWIN A.
      Edgar Allan Poe. Va. Apr. (1:78.)

  ALDINGTON, RICHARD.
      Katharine Mansfield. L. Rev. Jan. 10. (8.) N. Rep. Oct. 22, ’24.
        (40:207.)

  Aldrich, Thomas Bailey.
      By C. Hartley Grattan. A. Merc. May. (5:41.)

  ALLEN, FLETCHER.
      Sheila Kaye-Smith. Int. Sept., ’24. (2:726.)

  ALLEN HERVEY.
      A. E. Gonzales. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Mar. 14. (1:595.)

  Allen, James Lane.
      By John H. Finley. N. Y. Times. Mar. 1. (2.)

  ALLEN, LOUIS.
      Jack London. Dear. Ind. May 16. (2.)

  American Short Story.
      By John Davis Anderson. Int. Mar. (3:251.)
      Anonymous. Book. (N. Y.) Nov., ’24. (60:370.)
      By Herschel Brickell. L. Rev. Jan. 31. (7.)
      By Louis Bromfield. Books. Feb. 15. (3.)
      By Gerald Hewes Carson. Book. (N. Y.) Mar. (61:58.) May.
        (61:348.) June. (61:438.)
      By N. Bryllion Fagin. Int. Mar. (3:249.)
      By Charles J. Finger. A. W. Dec., ’24. (7.)
      By Henry B. Fuller. N. Y. Times. Jun. 28. (16.)
      By Herbert S. Gorman. N. Y. Sun. Mar. 6. (16.) Int. Aug. 25.
        (3:616.)
      By M. M. World. Jul. 5. (9S.)
      By Lloyd Morris. N. Y. Times. Jan. 18. (6.)
      By Edward J. O’Brien. L. Rev. Apr. 11. (2.)
      By John Pentifer. A. Merc. Jan. (4:90.)
      By Janet Ramsay. Books. Aug. 16. (10.)
      By R. L. Ramsay. L. Rev. May 9. (14.)
      By Paul F. Sifton. N. Y. World. Feb. 22. (7.)
      By John F. Smertenko. Nat. (N. Y.) Apr. 22. (120:469.)
      By Blanche Colton Williams. N. Y. Sun. Jan. 31. (7.)
      By R. Heylbut Wollstein. Int. Mar. (3:249.)

  ANDERSON, ISAAC.
      Irvin S. Cobb. Int. Nov., ’24. (2:906.)
      Selma Lägerlof. Int. Nov., ’24. (2:890.)

  ANDERSON, JOHN DAVIS.
      American Short Story. Int. Mar. (3:251.)

  Anderson, Sherwood.
      By D. A. Ind. Nov. 22, ’24. (113:429.)
      By William Rose Benét. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Oct. 18, ’24. (1:200.)
      By Louis Bromfield. Book. (N. Y.) Dec., ’24. (7:71.)
      By V. F. Calverton. Mod. R. Fall, ’24. (2:82.)
      By Joseph Collins. Book. (N. Y.) Mar. (61:22.)
      By N. Bryllion Fagin. D.D. Jan. Feb. (7:91.) Guar. (Am.) (1:246.)
      By Charles J. Finger. A. W. Dec., ’24. (7.)
      By Waldo Frank. Guar. (Am.) Feb. (1:97.)
      By Julius Weis Freind. D. D. Nov.–Dec., ’24. (7:71.)
      By Isaac Goldberg. Strat. Jan. (4:83.)
      By Herbert S. Gorman. Int. Dec., ’24. (3:15.)
      By Harry Hansen. Nat. (N. Y.) Dec. 10, ’24. (119:641.)
      By John L. Hervey. A. W. Mar. (9.)
      By Sinclair Lewis. Books. Nov. 9, ’24. (1.)
      By Robert Morss Lovett. N. Rep. Nov. 5, ’24. (40:255.)
      By Flora Merrill. N. Y. World. Mar. 22. (1 M.)
      By Christopher Morley. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Aug. 15. (2:43.)
      By Lloyd Morris. N. Y. Times. Oct. 12, ’24. (6.)
      By Frank Luther Mott. Mid. Jan. 15. (11:54.)
      By Llewellyn Powys. Dial. Apr. (78:330.)
      By Carl Van Doren. Cen. July. (110:362.)
      By Virginia Woolf. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Aug 1. (2:1.)

  Andreyev, Leonid.
      By Julian Leveridge. L. Rev. Jan. 10. (2.)
      By Princess Radziwill. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Oct. 4, ’24. (1:164.)
      By Joseph T. Shipley. Guar. (Am.) Apr. (1:261.)

  Arlen, Michael.
      By William Rose Benét. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Jun. 6. (1:802.)
      By Herschel Brickell. L. Rev. (N. Y.) Jun. 13. (3.)
      By Bruce Gould. Int. May. (3:399.)
      By Joseph Wood Krutch. World. May 24. (4 M.)
      By Shane Leslie. Int. Oct., ’24. (2:769.)
      By Robert Morss Lovett. N. Rep. Dec. 10, ’24. (41:8.)
      By Herman L. Mankiewicz. N. Y. Times. Mar. 22. (2.) May 31. (5.)
      By David Martin. Book. (N. Y.) Nov., ’24. (60:293.)
      By Edmund Lester Pearson. Outl. (N. Y.) Jun. 10. (140:221.)

  ARNESSEN, ELIAS.
      Knut Hamsun. For. Jun. (73:852.)

  Aumonier, Stacy.
      By Stella Heilbrunn. Int. May. (3:426.)
      By William McFee. N. Y. Sun. Feb. 14. (7.)

  Austin, William.
      Anon. N. Y. Times. May 31. (21.)


                                   B

  Balzac, Honoré de.
      By Albert S. Guérard. S. W. Apr. (10:110.)
      By Hugo von Hofmannsthal. Dial. May. (78:35.)

  Barbey d’Aurevilly, Jules-Amédée.
      By Ernest Boyd. N. Y. Sun. Mar. 11. (16.)
      By William A. Drake. Books. Apr. 19. (9.)
      By John Eversharp. N. Rep. Aug. 19, ’25. (43:351.)
      By Paul Souday. N. Y. Times. Jul. 19. (12.)

  “Barrington, E.”
      By Gerald Hewes Carson. Books. Oct. 5, ’24. (8.)
      By William Arthur Deacon. Int. July, ’25. (3:535.)

  BAUGH, HANSELL.
      Short Story. Rev. Jul. (5:105.)

  Beach Rex.
      By Carey Jeffreys. L. Rev. Aug. 8. (2.)
      By Morris Markey. Int. Sept. (3:681.)

  BEAZELL, W. P.
      Washington Irving. World. May 3. (6 M.)

  BEER, THOMAS.
      Richard Harding Davis. Ly. Oct. 11, ’24. (15.)
      Henry James. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Apr. 25. (1:701.)

  BELL, CLIVE.
      Virginia Woolf. Dial. Dec., ’24. (77:451.)

  BELL, LISLE.
      J. C. Squire. Books. Mar. 8. (11.)

  BELLOC-LOWNDES, MRS.
      Henry James. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Sept. 19. (2:139.)

  BENÉT, WILLIAM ROSE.
      Sherwood Anderson. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Oct. 18, ’24. (1:200.)
      Michael Arlen. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Jun. 6. (1:803.)
      Richard Connell. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Aug. 8. (2:23.)
      Joseph Conrad. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Mar. 14. (1:594.)
      Charles J. Finger. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Dec. 13, ’24. (1:380.)
      John Galsworthy. Book. (N. Y.) Aug. (61:698.)

  Bennett, Arnold.
      By George B. Dutton. Ind. Dec. 27, ’24. (113:577.)
      By Kenneth Fuessle. Int. Jan. (3:98.)
      By Henry B. Fuller. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Nov. 29, ’24. (1:319.)
      By Henry Hazlitt. N. Y. Sun. Sept. 26. (8.)
      By Joseph Wood Krutch. Books. Nov. 9, ’24. (4.)
      By Frederic Lefévre. Liv. A. Mar. 28. (324:691.)
      By H. L. Mencken. World. Sept. 13. (4 M.)
      By Charles Wharton Stork. L. Rev. Jan. 3. (3.)

  Bercovici, Konrad.
      By Ring W. Lardner. L. Rev. Oct. 18, ’24. (3.)

  BESTON, HENRY.
      Charles J. Finger. Books. Dec. 28, ’24. (4.)

  Bierce, Ambrose.
      By Ruth Guthrie Harding. Book. (N. Y.) Aug. (61:636.)
      By Edna Kenton. Book. (N. Y.) Sept. (62:77.)
      By Robert Littell. N. Rep. Oct. 15, ’24. (40:177.)
      By Henry L. Mencken. World. Mar. 1. (3 E.)
      By George Sterling. A. Merc. Sept. (6:10.)

  BISHOP, JOHN PEALE.
      Kenneth Burke. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Jan. 3. (1:427.)

  BJÖRKMAN, EDWIN.
      Ernest Bramah. L. Rev. Apr. 4. (3.)
      Aldous Huxley. L. Rev. Oct. 4, ’24. (4.)
      Thomas Mann. L. Rev. Feb. 28. (3.)

  Blackmore, Richard Doddridge.
      By John Walker Harrington. Int. Sept. (3:666.)

  Blackwood, Algernon.
      Anonymous. N. Y. Times. Feb. 22. (14.)
      By Louise Maunsell Field. Int. Jun. (3:482.)
      By Zona Gale. Books. Apr. 26. (1.)
      By Robert Hillyer. N. Y. Sun. Mar. 7. (7.)
      By Wallace Irwin. L. Rev. Mar. 7. (3.)

  Bland, J. O. P.
      By Herschel Brickell. L. Rev. Dec. 27, ’24. (3.)

  Blasco Ibáñez, Vicente.
      By Arthur Livingston. Int. Jul. (3:543.)
      By Allan Nevins. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Jul. 4. (1:871.)
      By Henry Longan Stuart. N. Y. Times. May 31. (9.)

  BOAS, GEORGE.
      Comte Arthur de Gobineau. Rev. Apr. (5:101.)

  BOGAN, LOUISE.
      Viola Meynell. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Apr. 25. (1:703.)

  BOIS, JULES.
      Anatole France. Cath. W. Jan. (120:567.)

  BOLITHO, WILLIAM.
      G. A. Borgese. World. Mar. 29. (7 M.)
      Franz Kafka. World. Feb. 8. (6.)
      Carlo Linati. World. Jul. 26. (3 M.)
      Mario Puccini. World. Feb. 15. (6.)

  BOND, FRASER.
      Archibald MacMechan. N. Y. Times. Jun. 14. (19.)

  Borgese, G. A.
      By William Bolitho. World. Mar. 29. (7 M.)

  Bourget, Paul.
      By Paul Souday. N. Y. Times. Apr. 5. (10.)

  BOWKER, VIVIAN RADCLIFFE.
      Richard Washburn Child. Int. Feb. (3:211.)
      Lemuel de Bra. Int. Sept. (3:681.)
      Aino Kallas. Int. Sept. (3:683.)

  BOYD, ERNEST.
      Jules-Amédée Barbey d’Aurevilly. N. Y. Sun. Mar. 11. (16.)
      Anatole France. Nat. (N. Y.) Nov. 5, ’24. (119:488.) Ind. Jan.
        31. (114:133.) Sat. R. (N. Y.) Jun. 27. (1:853.) V. F. (N. Y.)
        Aug. (42.)
      Thomas Hardy. Harp. M. Jul. (151:234.)
      Lafcadio Hearn. Ind. Dec. 20, ’24. (113:548.)
      Henry James. Ind. Apr. 18. (114:448.)
      James Joyce. World. Jan. 25. (9.)
      Sylvia Lynd. Ind. May 9. (114:533.)
      Paul Morand. Ind. Aug. 1 (115:135.)
      Wladyslaw Rejmont. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Nov. 29, ’24. (1:317.)
      Robert Louis Stevenson. Ind. Dec. 13, ’24. (113:520.)
      Lyof Tolstoy. Ind. Jul. 4. (115:22.)

  Boyd, Thomas.
      By John Dos Passos. N. Y. Sun. Mar. 28. (6.)
      By Harrison Smith. Books. Apr. 26. (11.)

  BOYNTON, H. W.
      Robert Herrick. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Sept. 19. (2:135.)
      Thomas Mann. N. Y. Sun. Feb. 2. (14.)
      J. C. Squire. N. Y. Sun. Feb. 2. (14.)

  BRADFORD, GAMALIEL.
      Anatole France. Book. (N. Y.) Aug. (61:705.)

  BRAININ, JOSEPH.
      Anatole France. J. T. Oct. 24, ’24. (11.)

  Bramah, Ernest.
      By Edwin Björkman. L. Rev. Apr. 4. (3.)

  BREWSTER, E. H.
      Augusta De Wit. Yale. Apr. (14:596.)

  BRICKELL, HERSCHEL.
      American Short Story. L. Rev. Jan. 31. (7.)
      Michael Arlen. L. Rev. Jun. 13. (3.)
      J. O. P. Bland. L. Rev. Dec. 27, ’24. (3.)
      Charles J. Finger. L. Rev. Oct. 11, ’24. (14.)
      John Galsworthy. L. Rev. Aug. 8. (2.)
      A. E. Gonzales. L. Rev. Jan. 10. (2.)
      Japanese Short Stories. L. Rev. Jan. 3. (3.)
      Boris Pilniak. L. Rev. Jan. 17. (6.)
      Aleksei Remizov. L. Rev. Jan. 17. (6.)

  British Short Story.
      By H. I. Brock. N. Y. Times. Jun. 28. (17.)
      By Louis Bromfield. Books. Feb. 15. (3.)
      By Henry B. Fuller. N. Y. Times. Jun. 28. (16.)
      By Freda Kirchwey. Books. Jan. 4. (4.)
      By Joseph Wood Krutch. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Jan. 24. (1:475.)
      By William McFee. N. Y. Trib. Dec. 14.
      By Johan J. Smertenko. Nat. (N. Y.) Apr. 22. (120:469.)
      By R. Heylbut Wollstein. Int. Mar. (3:249.)

  BROCK, H. I.
      British Short Story. N. Y. Times. Jun. 28. (17.)
      Anatole France. N. Y. Times. Jun. 14. (6.)

  BROMFIELD, LOUIS.
      Sherwood Anderson. Book. (N. Y.) Dec., ’24. (60:492.)
      Short Story. Books. Feb. 15. (3.)

  BROUSSON, JEAN-JACQUES.
      Anatole France. A. Merc. Sept., ’24. (3:9.)

  BROWN, GRACE Z.
      Katharine Mansfield. Book. (N. Y.) Aug. (61:687.)

  BUEL, CLARENCE CLOUGH.
      Henry James. L. Rev. May 9. (6.)

  BULGAKOV, V.
      Lyof Tolstoy. McC. Aug. (1:538.)

  Bunin, Ivan.
      By Alexander I. Nazaroff. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Feb. 7. (1:512.)

  Burke, Kenneth.
      By John Peale Bishop. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Jan. 3. (1:427.)
      By Malcolm Cowley. Dial. Dec., ’24. (77:520.)
      By C. Hartley Grattan. Int. Dec., ’24. (3:60.)
      By Matthew Josephson. Books. Nov. 16, ’24. (4.)
      By Gorham B. Munson. L. Rev. Oct. 11, ’24. (3.)
      By Glenway Westcott. Tr. Oct., ’24. (2:446.)

  Burke, Thomas.
      By Howard Devree. N. Y. Times. Dec. 28, ’24. (15.)

  BURREL, ANGUS.
      Thomas Hardy. World. Apr. 26. (6 M.)


                                   C

  Cabell, James Branch.
      By Arthur W. Colton. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Aug. 22. (2:62.)
      By Henry Blake Fuller. N. Rep. Dec. 31, ’24. (41:151.) Sept. 16.
        (44:104.)
      By Ellen Glasgow. Books. Nov. 2, ’24. (1.) Apr. 5. (3.)
      By Herbert S. Gorman. N. Y. Times. Mar. 29. (11.)
      By L. M. Hussey. Guar. (Am.) Apr. (1:269.)
      By George D. Meadows. Cath. W. Aug. (121:705.)
      By Ben Ray Redman. Int. Nov., ’24. (2:860.)
      By Burton Roscoe. Nat. (N. Y.) Apr. 29. (120:494.)
      By Mary J. Sheridan. I. L. M. May. (38.)
      By Carl Van Doren. Int. Dec., ’24. (3:12.) Cen. Nov., ’24.
        (109:129.)
      By James Southall Wilson. Va. Apr. (1:150.)

  Cable, George W.
      Anonymous. Outl. (N. Y.) Feb. 11. (139:213.)
      By Arthur H. Quinn. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Mar. 21. (1:609.)

  CALVERTON, V. F.
      Sherwood Anderson. Mod. Q. Fall, ’24. (2:82.)

  CARSON, GERALD HEWES.
      American Short Story. Book. (N. Y.) Mar. (61:58) May. (61:348.)
        Jun. (61:438.) Sept. (62:40.)
      “E. Barrington.” Books. Oct. 5, ’24. (8.)
      Sarah Orne Jewett. Book. (N. Y.) Jul. (61:594.)
      Short Story. Book. (N. Y.) Feb. (60:769.)

  CARTER, JOHN.
      Theodore Dreiser. N. Y. Times. Aug. 9. (5.)
      Sidney Howard. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Feb. 14. (1:523.)
      Mimei Ogawa. N. Y. Times. Jul. 26. (1.)
      P’u Sing-Ling. N. Y. Times. Mar. 29. (6.)

  Cather, Willa Sibert.
      By Elizabeth Shepley Sergeant. N. Rep. Jun. 17. (43:91.)
      By Walter Tittle. Cen. Jul. (110:305.)

  Chekhov, Anton.
      Anonymous. N. Y. Times. Nov. 2, ’24. (2.)
      By Louis S. Friedland. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Apr. 4. (1:654.)
      By Maxim Gorky. Dial. Feb. (78:96.)
      By Robert Littell. N. Rep. Mar. 25. (42:131.)
      By Johan J. Smertenko. Nat. (N. Y.) Dec. 10, ’24. (119:652.)
      By Eliss L. Tartak. J. T. Jan. 2. (16.)
      By Leo Wiener. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Apr. 4. (1:646.)
      By Abraham Yarmolinsky. Guar. (Am.) May-Jun. (1:341.)

  CHAPMAN, ELISABETH COBB.
      Irvin S. Cobb. Ly. May 30, ’25. (11.)

  CHAPMAN, JOHN JAY.
      Edgar Allan Poe. N. Y. Times. Nov. 2, ’24. (2.)

  Chesterton, G. K.
      By W. Teignmouth Shore. Dear. Ind. May 2. (2.)
      By Kathleen Woodward. N. Y. Times. Jul. 12. (2.)

  CHEW, SAMUEL C.
      Anatole France. N. A. Rev. Dec., ’24. (220:296.)
      Thomas Hardy. Guar. (Am.) Mar. (1:213.)
      Arthur Machen. N. Y. Sun. Apr. 18. (6.)

  Child, Richard Washburn.
      By Vivian Radcliffe Bowker. Int. Feb. (3:211.)
      By Blanche Colton Williams. N. Y. Sun. Apr. 18. (7.)

  CLINE, LEONARD LANSON.
      Stephen McKenna. Books. Sept. 27. (12 V.)

  CLOSSER, MYLA JO.
      Harry Leon Wilson. Book. (N. Y.) Jun. (61:458.)

  Cobb, Irvin S.
      By Isaac Anderson. Int. Nov., ’24. (2:906.)
      By Elisabeth Cobb Chapman. Ly. May 30, ’25. (11.)
      By Wallace Irwin. L. Rev. Mar. 14. (3.)
      By Clement Wood. L. Rev. Oct. 18, ’24. (15.)

  COBLENTZ, STANTON A.
      Lafcadio Hearn. Int. Mar. (3:239.)

  Colcord, Lincoln.
      By Samuel Eliot Morison. Yale. Oct., ’24. (14:195.)

  Collins, Charles.
      By Lawrence Lipton. Pear. (Am.) Apr. (53.)

  COLLINS, JOSEPH.
      Sherwood Anderson. Book. (N. Y.) Mar. (61:22.)
      Joseph Conrad. Book. (N. Y.) Apr. (61:173.)
      Anatole France. L. Rev. Oct. 18, ’24. (1.) Va. Apr. (1:94.)
      Lafcadio Hearn. Book. (N. Y.) Mar. (61:22.)
      Henry James. Book. (N. Y.) Jun. (61:477.)
      V. Sackville-West. L. Rev. Aug. 1. (2.)

  COLLINS, J. P.
      Bret Harte. Liv. A. Dec. 6, ’24. (323:515.)

  COLTON, ARTHUR W.
      James Branch Cabell. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Aug. 22. (2:62.)
      A. Conan Doyle. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Oct. 18, ’24. (1:199.)

  Connell, Richard.
      By William Rose Benét. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Aug. 8. (2:23.)

  Conrad, Joseph.
      Anonymous. N. Y. Times. Dec. 7, ’24. (3.) Aug. 9. (13.)
      By William Rose Benét. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Mar. 14. (1:594.)
      By Joseph Collins. Book. (N. Y.) Apr. (61:173.)
      By R. B. Cunninghame Graham. N. Y. Times. Jan. 4. (2.)
      By Ford Madox Ford. Tr. Oct., ’24. (2:454.) Nov., ’24. (2:570.)
        Dec., ’24. (2:689.)
      By Julius Weis Freind. D. D. Oct., ’24. (7:3.)
      By Kenneth Fuessle. Int. Jan. (3:98.)
      By John Galsworthy. Scr. Jan. (77:3.)
      By Edward Garnett. N. Rep. Apr. 8. (42:190.)
      By C. Lewis Hind. Outl. (N. Y.) Jan. 28. (139:138.)
      By L. D. Howland. Com. Apr. 22. (1:666.)
      By Percy A. Hutchison. Int. Sept., ’24. (2:713.) May. (3:429.)
      By Charlton Laird. I. L. M. May. (42.)
      By Robert Littell. N. Rep. Feb. 4. (41:287.)
      By William McFee. N. Y. Sun. Jan. 31. (7.) Book. (N. Y.) Jun.
        (61:500.)
      By H. L. Mencken. A. Merc. Apr. (4:505.)
      By Christopher Morley. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Dec. 27, ’24. (1:415.)
        Apr. 25. (1:707.)
      By Thomas Moult. Yale. Jan. (14:295.)
      By John Hyde Preston. Int. Jan. (3:137.)
      By Cecil Roberts. Book. (N. Y.) Jul. (61:536.)
      By Ellen Burns Sherman. Books. Nov. 23, ’24. (11.)
      By Stuart P. Sherman. Books. Dec. 28, ’24. (1.)
      By Walter Tittle. N. Y. Times. May 17. (2.) Outl. (N. Y.) Jul. 1.
        (140:333.) Jul. 8. (140:361.)
      By Mark Van Doren. Nat. (N. Y.) Jan. 14. (120:45.)
      By G. W. L. Rev. Mar. 21. (2.)
      By Charles R. Walker. Ind. Feb. 7. (114:161.)

  Continental Short Story.
      By Louis Bromfield. Books. Feb. 15. (3.)
      By Matthew Josephson. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Jan. 10. (1:443.)

  Coppard, A. E.
      By Margery Latimer. Books. Sept. 6. (5 V.)

  COURNOS, JOHN.
      Fyodor Dostoevsky. L. Rev. Sept. 19. (2.)
      Maxim Gorky. L. R. Jan. 24. (4.)
      Short Story. L. Rev. Oct. 11, ’24. (1.)
      L. A. G. Strong. L. Rev. Sept. 5. (2.)
      Lyof Tolstoy. L. Rev. Sept. 19. (2.)

  COWLEY, MALCOLM.
      Kenneth Burke. Dial. Dec., ’24. (77:520.)
      Conrad Aiken. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Jun. 27. (1:851.)

  Crane, Stephen.
      By Floyd Dell. Nat. (N. Y.) Dec. 10, ’24. (119:637.)
      By James L. Ford. Int. Oct., ’24. (2:785.)
      By Shane Leslie. L. Rev. Jan. 3. (7.)
      By Stanley T. Williams. Yale. Oct., ’24. (14:172.)

  CRAWFORD, JOHN W.
      D. H. Lawrence. World. Jul. 15. (95.)
      V. Sackville-West. N. Y. Times. Jul. 5. (13.)

  CROCKETT, MARY.
      Gertrude Stein. Mod. Q. Feb. (2:233.)

  CUNNINGHAME GRAHAM, R. B.
      Joseph Conrad. N. Y. Times. Jan. 4. (2.)


                                   D

  DARGAN, E. PRESTON.
      Anatole France. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Oct. 25, ’24. (1:221.)

  Davis, Richard Harding.
      By Thomas Beer. Ly. Oct. 11, ’24. (15.)
      By Arthur Bartlett Maurice. Int. Jun. (3:458.)
      By William C. Shepherd. Col. Nov. 29, ’24. (39.)
      By Vincent Starrett. Rev. Oct., ’24. (4:352.)

  DEACON, WILLIAM ARTHUR.
      “E. Barrington.” Int. Jul. (3:535.)

  De Bra, Lemuel.
      By Vivien Radcliffe Bowker. Int. Sept. (3:681.)

  De La Mare, Walter.
      By Herbert S. Gorman. N. A. Rev. Dec., ’24. (220:372.)

  DE MILLE, GEORGE E.
      Edgar Allan Poe. A. Merc. Apr. (4:433.)

  De Wit, Augusta.
      By E. H. Brewster. Yale. Apr. (14:596.)

  DELL, FLOYD.
      Stephen Crane. Nat. (N. Y.) Dec. 10, ’24. (119:637.)

  DEUTSCH, BABETTE.
      Maxim Gorky. Books. Nov. 30, ’24. (1.)
      Thomas Hardy. Books. Jan. 18. (10.)

  DEVREE, HOWARD.
      Thomas Burke. N. Y. Times. Dec. 28, ’24. (15.)

  DIBBLE, R. F.
      Marcel Schwob. Nat. (N. Y.) Nov. 5, ’24. (119:500.)

  DOS PASSOS, JOHN.
      Thomas Boyd. N. Y. Sun. Mar. 28. (6.)

  DOSTOEVSKY, FYODOR.
      A Page of Manuscript. Liv. A. Sept. 5. (326:551.)

  Dostoevsky, Fyodor.
      By John Cournos. L. Rev. Sept. 19. (2.)
      By A. Donald Douglas. Int. Oct., ’24. (2:787.)
      By Arthur Ruhl. L. Rev. Oct. 11, ’24. (2.)
      By Alexander I. Nazaroff. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Aug. 8. (2:30.) N. Y.
        Times. July 19. (8.)
      By Dorothy Thompson. L. Rev. Jan. 3. (7.)
      By Abraham Yarmolinsky. N. Y. Times. Jul. 19. (9.)

  DOUGLAS, A. DONALD.
      Fyodor Dostoevsky. Int. Oct., ’24. (2:787.)
      Ring W. Lardner. Int. May. (3:409.)

  Doyle, A. Conan.
      By Arthur W. Colton. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Oct. 18, ’24. (1:199.)
      By Arthur Bartlett Maurice. Int. Nov., ’24. (2:877.)
      By Melville E. Stone. L. Rev. Oct. 18, ’24. (1.)

  DRAKE, WILLIAM A.
      Jules-Amédée Barbey d’Aurevilly. Books. Apr. 19. (19.)
      Anatole France. Books. Jan. 25. (7.)
      Thomas Mann. Books. Feb. 1. (7.)
      Boris Pilniak. Books. Mar. 8. (7.)
      Aleksei Remizov. Books. Mar. 8. (7.)
      Carl Sternheim. Books. Aug. 23. (7.)

  Dreiser, Theodore.
      By John Carter. N. Y. Times. Aug. 9. (5.)
      By Henry B. Fuller. N. Rep. Sept. 16. (44:104.)
      By Stuart P. Sherman. Books. Aug. 23. (4.)
      By Walter Tittle. Cen. Aug. (110:441.)

  Duhamel, Georges.
      By Andre Thérive. Liv. A. Sept. 12, ’25. (326:58.)

  DUTTON, GEORGE B.
      Arnold Bennett. Ind. Dec. 27, ’24. (113:577.)


                                   E

  EATON, G. D.
      Louis Hémon. Int. Aug., ’25. (3:581.)

  ELLINGSTON, JOHN R.
      Wilhelm Hauff. N. Y. Times. Aug. 2. (5.)
      Alfred de Musset. N. Y. Times. Aug. 2. (5.)

  EVERSHARP, JOHN.
      Jules-Amédée Barbey d’Aurevilly. N. Rep. Aug. 19, ’25. (43:351.)


                                   F

  FAGIN, N. BRYLLION.
      American Short Story. Int. Mar. (3:249.)
      Sherwood Anderson. D. D. Jan.–Feb. (7:91.) Guar. (Am.) Apr.
        (1:246.)
      Short Story. D. D. Jan.–Feb. (7:116.) Int. Apr. (3:301.)

  Ferber, Edna.
      By Flora Merrill. World. May 3. (1 M.)
      By Arnold Patrick. Book. (N. Y.) Apr. (61:164.)

  FIELD, LOUISE MAUNSELL.
      Algernon Blackwood. Int. Jun. (3:482.)
      D. H. Lawrence. Int. Aug., ’25. (3:613.)
      Viola Meynell. L. Rev. May 29. (3.)

  FINGER, CHARLES J.
      American Short Story. A. W. Dec., ’24. (7.)
      Sherwood Anderson. A. W. Dec., ’24. (7.)

  Finger, Charles J.
      By William Rose Benét. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Dec. 13, ’24. (1:380.)
      By Henry Beston. Books. Dec. 28, ’24. (4.)
      By Herschel Brickell. L. Rev. Oct. 11, ’24. (14.)
      By Eva Goldbeck. L. Rev. Jan. 10. (3.)
      By Harry Hansen. Books. Oct. 26, ’24. (6.)
      By Joseph M. March. N. Y. Times. Dec. 28, ’24. (15.)
      By C. A. Newman. Dear. Ind. May 21. (14.)

  FINLEY, JOHN H.
      James Lane Allen. N. Y. Times. Mar. 1. (2.)

  FOLLETT, WILSON.
      Thomas Hardy. N. Y. Sun. Apr. 18. (6.)

  FORD, FORD MADOX.
      Joseph Conrad. Tr. Oct., ’24. (2:454.) Nov., ’24. (2:570.) Dec.,
        ’24. (2:689.)
      Ernest Hemingway. L. Rev. Jan. 3. (1.)
      Robert McAlmon. L. Rev. Jan. 3. (1.)

  FORD, JAMES L.
      Stephen Crane. Int. Oct., ’24. (2:785.)
      Edith Wharton. Int. Oct., ’24. (2:785.)

  FORMAN, HENRY JAMES.
      George Gissing. N. Y. Times. Jan. 18. (9.)
      Thomas Hardy. N. Y. Times. Apr. 12. (7.)

  France, Anatole.
      Anonymous. Nat. (N. Y.) Oct. 22, ’24. (119:434.) Nov. 12, ’24.
        (119:512.) N. Y. Times, Oct. 19, ’24. (7.) Guar. (Am.) Nov.,
        ’24. (1:2.) Tr. Nov., ’24. (2:547.) Liv. A. Dec. 6, ’24.
        (323:535.)
      By Edwin Björkman. L. Rev. Jul. 3. (4.)
      By Jules Bois. Cath. W. Jan. (120:567.)
      By Ernest Boyd. Ind. Jan. 31. (114:133.) V. F. (N. Y.) Aug. (42.)
        Sat. R. (N. Y.) Jun. 27. (1:853.) Nat. (N. Y.) Nov. 5, ’24.
        (119:488.)
      By Gamaliel Bradford. Book. (N. Y.) Aug. (61:705.)
      By Joseph Brainin. J. T. Oct. 24, ’24. (11.)
      By H. I. Brock. N. Y. Times. Jun. 14. (6.)
      By Jean-Jacques Brousson. A. Merc. Sept., ’24. (3:9.)
      By Samuel C. Chew. N. A. Rev. Dec., ’24. (220:296.)
      By Joseph Collins. L. Rev. Oct. 18, ’24. (1.) Va. Apr. (1:94.)
      By E. Preston Dargan. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Oct. 25, ’24. (1:221.)
      By William A. Drake. Books. Jan. 25. (7.)
      By W. L. George. N. Y. Times. Oct. 19, ’24. (7.)
      By James Graham. L. Rev. Jan. 17. (1.)
      By Albert Guérard. Books. Sept. 27. (1.)
      By Percy A. Hutchison. Int. Nov., ’24. (2:851.)
      By Emil Lengyel. N. Y. Times. Aug. 23. (5.)
      By Robert Littell. N. Rep. Nov. 5, ’24. (40:250.)
      By Pierre Loving. Guar. (Am.) Apr. (1:276.)
      By Marvin Löwenthal. Men. J. Feb. (11:14.)
      By John Macy. Nat. (N. Y.) Nov. 5, ’24. (119:489.)
      By René Maran. Opp. Dec., ’24. (2:370.)
      By Arthur Bartlett Maurice. Outl. (N. Y.) Oct. 22, ’24. (138:296.)
      By Thomas Moult. Book. (N. Y.) Dec., ’24. (60:465.)
      By William Lyon Phelps. Scr. Feb. (77:210.)
      By Princess Radziwill. For. Dec., ’24. (72:827.)
      By Burton Rascoe. Book. (N. Y.) Nov., ’24. (60:337.)
      By Harry Saltpeter. N. Y. World. Feb. 8. (6:1.)
      By Pitts Sanborn. Nat. (N. Y.) Nov. 5, ’24. (119:489.)
      By Stuart P. Sherman. Books. Oct. 26, ’24. (1.)
      By Joseph Shipley. Guar. (Am.) Dec., ’24. (1:1.)
      By Paul Souday. N. Y. Times. Dec. 14, ’24. (8.)
      By Paul Vaillant-Couturier. Nat. (N. Y.) Apr. 15. (120:406.)
      By Carl Van Doren. Cen. Dec., ’24. (109:286.) Jan. (109:418.)
        Aug. (110:510.)
      By Mark Van Doren. Nat. (N. Y.) Nov. 5, ’24. (119:497.)
      By Edward Wassermann. Book. (N. Y.) Apr. (61:197.)
      By Louis Weitzenhorn. World. Jun. 21. (4 M.)
      By Edmund Wilson. N. Rep. Feb. 11. (41:308.)

  FRANK WALDO
      Sherwood Anderson. Guar. (Am.) Feb. (1:97.)

  Frank, Waldo.
      By Burton Rascoe. A. D. Oct., ’24. (41.)

  FREDERICK, JOHN T.
      Charles T. Finger. Mid. May 1. (11:176.)

  FREIND, JULIUS WEIS.
      Sherwood Anderson. D. D. Nov.–Dec., ’24. (7:71.)
      Joseph Conrad. D. D. Oct., ’24. (7:3.)

  French Short Story.
      By Louis Bromfield. Books. Feb. 15. (3.)

  French, Joseph Lewis.
      Anonymous. N. Y. Times. May 3. (13.)

  FRIEDLAND, LOUIS S.
      Anton Chekhov. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Apr. 4. (1:654.)

  FRIEDMAN, FRIEDA.
      Fannie Hurst. J. T. Jul. 10. (4.)

  FUESSLE, KENNETH.
      Arnold Bennett. Int. Jan. (3:98.)
      Joseph Conrad. Int. Jan. (3:98.)
      Sir Philip Gibbs. Int. Jan. (3:98.)

  FULLER, HENRY BLAKE.
      American Short Story. N. Y. Times. Jun. 28. (16.)
      Arnold Bennett. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Nov. 29, ’24. (1:319.)
      British Short Story. N. Y. Times. Jun. 28. (16.)
      James Branch Cabell. N. Rep. Dec. 31, ’24. (41:151.) Sept. 16.
        (44:104.)
      Theodore Dreiser. N. Rep. Sept. 16. (44:104.)
      Henry James. N. Y. Times. Apr. 19. (4.)


                                   G

  GAINES, CLARENCE H.
      Robert Louis Stevenson. N. A. Rev. Mar. (221:567.)

  GALE, ZONA.
      Algernon Blackwood. Books. Apr. 26. (1.)

  GALSWORTHY, JOHN.
      Joseph Conrad. Scr. Jan. (77:3.)

  Galsworthy, John.
      By William Rose Benét. Book. (N. Y.) Aug. (61:698.)
      By Herschel Brickell. L. Rev. Aug. 8. (2.)
      By Percy A. Hutchison. N. Y. Times. Aug. 2. (1.)
      By Mary Kolars. Books. Sept. 6. (4 V.)
      By Dorothy Martin. Yale. Oct., ’24. (14:126.)
      By Harry Saltpeter. Int. Sept. (3:678.)
      By R. D. Townsend. Outl. (N. Y.) Sept. 16. (114:98.)
      By Mark Van Doren. Nat. (N. Y.) Sept. 2. (121:258.)

  GARNETT, EDWARD.
      Joseph Conrad. N. Rep. Apr. 8. (42:190.)

  Garnier, Clarence H.
      Viola Meynell. N. A. Rev. Sept.–Nov. (222:163.)

  GEORGE, W. L.
      Anatole France. N. Y. Times. Oct. 19, ’24. (7.)
      Edgar Saltus. Pear. (Am.) Apr. (17.)

  Gibbs, Sir Philip.
      By Kenneth Fuessle. Int. Jan. (3:98.)

  GILBERT, BERNARD.
      James Joyce. D. D. Jun. (7:174.)

  GILBERT, KATHARINE.
      Thomas Hardy. Rev. Jul. (5:9.)

  Gissing, George.
      By Stanley Alden. Books. Feb. 22. (11.)
      By Henry James Forman. N. Y. Times. Jan. 18. (9.)
      By Marette Quick. Guar. (Am.) Apr. (1:274.)

  GLASGOW, ELLEN.
      James Branch Cabell. Books. Nov. 2, ’24. (1.) Apr. 5. (3.)

  Glasgow, Ellen.
      By Grant Overton. Book. (N. Y.) May. (61:291.)

  Gobineau, Comte Arthur de.
      By George Boas. Rev. Apr. (5:101.)

  GOLDBECK, EVA.
      Charles J. Finger. L. Rev. Jan. 10. (3.)
      Russian Short Stories. L. Rev. Apr. 11. (3.)

  GOLDBERG, ISAAC.
      Sherwood Anderson. Strat. Jan. (4:83.)

  Golding, Louis.
      By Elias Lieberman. Am. H. Jul. 31. (117:355.)

  Gonzales, A. E.
      By Hervey Allen. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Mar. 14. (1:595.)
      By Herschel Brickell. L. Rev. Jan. 10. (2.)

  GORKY, MAXIM.
      Anton Chekhov. Dial. Feb. (78:96.)
      Count Lyof Tolstoi. Dial. Feb. (78:96.)

  Gorky, Maxim.
      By John Cournos. L. Rev. Jan. 24. (4.)
      By Babette Deutsch. Books. Nov. 30, ’24. (1.)
      By Louis Kronenberger. N. Y. Times. Jun. 14. (9.)
      By Alexander I. Nazaroff. N. Y. Times. Jan. 4. (11.)
      By Vinton Liddell Pickens. Rev. Jul. (5:109.)
      By Nathan P. Stedman. Int. Feb. (3:203.)
      By Elizabeth Vincent. N. Rep. Feb. 25. (42:22.)

  GORMAN, HERBERT S.
      American Short Story. N. Y. Sun. Mar. 6. (16.) Int. Aug. (3:616.)
      Sherwood Anderson. Int. Dec., ’24. (3:15.)
      James Branch Cabell. N. Y. Times, Mar. 29. (11.)
      Walter de la Mare. N. A. Rev. Dec., ’24. (220:372.)

  GOULD, BRUCE.
      Michael Arlen. Int. May. (3:399.)

  GOULD, LAURA STEDMAN.
      Lafcadio Hearn. N. Y. Times. Dec. 28, ’24. (26.)

  GRAHAM, JAMES.
      Anatole France. L. Rev. Jan. 17. (1.)

  Grant Watson, E. L.
      By Llewellyn Powys. Books. Feb. 15. (4.)
      By Elizabeth Heywood Wyman. Int. Mar. (3:285.)

  GRATTAN, C. HARTLEY.
      Thomas Bailey Aldrich. A. Merc. May. (5:41.)
      Kenneth Burke. Int. Dec., ’24. (3:60.)
      Lafcadio Hearn. C. D. N. Dec. 17, ’24.

  GREENEBAUM, BETSY.
      Russian Short Stories. N. Rep. May 27. (43:25.)

  GREGORY, ALYSE.
      Henry James. Dial. Sept. (79:235.)

  GUÉRARD, ALBERT L.
      Honoré de Balzac. S. W. Apr. (10:110.)
      Anatole France. Books. Sept. 27. (1.)

  GUNTHER, JOHN.
      Arthur Machen. Book. (N. Y.) Jul. (61:571.)
      Rafael Sabatini. Int. Mar. (3:252.)

  GWYNN, STEPHEN.
      C. E. Montague. Yale. July. (14:811.)


                                   H

  HAMILTON, CLAYTON.
      Robert Louis Stevenson. Int. Jan. (3:110.)

  Hamsun, Knut.
      By Elias Arnessen. For. Jun. (73:852.)

  HANSEN, HARRY.
      Sherwood Anderson. Nat. (N. Y.) Dec. 10, ’24. (119:641.)
      Charles J. Finger. Books. Oct. 26, ’24. (6.)

  HARDING, RUTH GUTHRIE.
      Ambrose Bierce. Book. (N. Y.) Aug. (61:636.)

  Hardy, Thomas.
      Anonymous. N. Y. Times. Dec. 14, ’24. (7.) Mar. 1. (6.)
      By Ernest Boyd. Harp. M. Jul. (151:234.)
      By Angus Burrell. N. Y. World. Apr. 26. (6 M.)
      By Samuel C. Chew. Guar. (Am.) Mar. (1:213.)
      By Babette Deutsch. Books. Jan. 18. (10.)
      By Wilson Follett. N. Y. Sun. Apr. 18. (6.)
      By Henry James Forman. N. Y. Times. Apr. 12. (7.)
      By Katherine Gilbert. Rev. Jul. (5:9.)
      By George McLean Harper. Scr. Aug. (78:151.)
      By F. J. Harvey Darton. Liv. A. Feb. 7. (324:303.)
      By C. Lewis Hind. Outl. (N. Y.) Feb. 25. (139:297.)
      By Frederic Lefévre. Liv. A. Apr. 11. (325:98.)
      By William Lyon Phelps. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Jun. 6. (1:808.)
      By Henry Longan Stuart. N. Y. Sun. Jan. 19. (14.)
      By Carl Van Doren. Cen. Jan. (109:418.)
      By Louis Weitzenhorn. N. Y. World. Apr. 12. (6 M.)

  HARMAN, HENRY E.
      Joel Chandler Harris. Book. (N. Y.) June. (61:433.)

  HARPER, GEORGE MCLEAN.
      Thomas Hardy. Scr. Aug. (78:151.)

  HARRINGTON, JOHN WALKER.
      Richard Doddridge Blackmore. Int. Sept. (3:666.)

  Harris, Frank.
      By J. G. Jacobson. Pear. (Am.) Apr. (22.)

  Harris, Joel Chandler.
      By Henry G. Harman. Book. (N. Y.) Jim. (61:433.)
      By Julia Collier Harris. Rev. Apr. (5:64.)

  HARRIS, JULIA COLLIER.
      Joel Chandler Harris. Rev. Apr. (5:64.)

  Harte, Francis Bret.
      By J. P. Collins. Liv. A. Dec. 6, ’24. (323:515.)

  Hauff, Wilhelm.
      By John R. Ellingston. N. Y. Times. Aug. 2. (5.)

  HAWTHORNE, JULIAN.
      Nathaniel Hawthorne. Book. (N. Y.) Jul. (61:567.)

  Hawthorne, Nathaniel.
      By Julian Hawthorne. Book. (N. Y.) Jul. (61:567.)

  HARVEY DARTON, F. J.
      Thomas Hardy. Liv. A. Feb. 7. (324:303.)

  HAZLITT, HENRY.
      Arnold Bennett. N. Y. Sun. Sept. 26. (8.)

  Hearn, Lafcadio.
      By Ernest Boyd. Ind. Dec. 20, ’24. (113:548.)
      By Stanton A. Coblentz. Int. Mar. (3:239.)
      By Joseph Collins. Book. (N. Y.) Mar. (61:22.)
      By Laura Stedman Gould. N. Y. Times. Dec. 28, ’24. (26.)
      By C. Hartley Grattan. C. D. N. Dec. 17, ’24.
      By Harry Salpeter. World. Jan. 25. (9.)

  HEILBRUNN, STELLA.
      Stacy Aumonier. Int. May. (3:426.)
      Alfred Noyes. Int. March. (3:287.)

  HELLMAN, GEORGE S.
      Washington Irving. Book. (N. Y.) Apr. (61:144.)
      Robert Louis Stevenson. Book. (N. Y.) Jan. (60:575.)

  Hemingway, Ernest.
      By Ford Madox Ford. L. Rev. Jan. 3. (1.)
      By Edmund Wilson. Dial. Oct., ’24. (77:340.)

  Hémon, Louis.
      By G. D. Eaton. Int. Aug., ’25. (3:581.)
      By Katherine Keith. N. Rep. Oct. 15, ’24. (40:183.)

  “Henry, O.”
      By Edward Larocque. Tinker. Book. (N. Y.) Jun. (61:436.)

  Herrick, Robert.
      By H. W. Boynton. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Sept. 19. (2:135.)
      By Herschel Brickell. L. Rev. Aug. 22. (2.)

  HERRMANN, JOHN.
      Emile Verhaeren. Books. Feb. 22. (3.)

  HERVEY, JOHN L.
      Sherwood Anderson. A. W. Mar. (9.)

  HILLYER, ROBERT.
      Algernon Blackwood. N. Y. Sun. Mar. 7. (7.)

  HIND, C. LEWIS.
      Joseph Conrad. Outl. (N. Y.) Jan. 28. (139:138.)
      Thomas Hardy. Outl. (N. Y.) Feb. 25. (139:297.)

  HOFMANNSTHAL, HUGO VON.
      Honoré de Balzac. Dial. May. (78:357.)

  HOPKINS, R. THURSTON.
      Rudyard Kipling. Liv. A. Nov. 8, ’24. (323:342.)

  Howard, Sidney.
      By John Carter. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Feb. 14. (1:523.)

  HOWARD, VELMA SWANSTON.
      Selma Lagerlöf. Int. Nov., ’24. (2:890.)

  HOWLAND, L. D.
      Joseph Conrad. Com. Apr. 22. (1:666.)

  HUGHES, RUPERT.
      Wladyslaw Rejmont. Int. Feb. (3:170.)

  Hummel, George F.
      By Johan J. Smertenko. Nat. (N. Y.) Apr. 22. (120:469.)

  Hurst, Fannie.
      By Frieda Friedman. J. T. Jul. 10. (4.)

  HUSSEY, L. M.
      James Branch Cabell. Guar. (Am.) Apr. (1:269.)

  HUTCHISON, PERCY ADAMS.
      Joseph Conrad. Int. May. (3:429.) Sept., ’24. (2:713.)
      Anatole France. Int. Nov., ’24. (2:851.)
      John Galsworthy. N. Y. Times. Aug. 2. (1.)

  Huxley, Aldous.
      By Edwin Björkman. L. Rev. Oct. 4, ’24. (4.)
      By Joseph Wood Krutch. Nat. (N. Y.) Nov. 5, ’24. (119:499.)
      By E. A. Niles. Ind. Oct. 25, ’24. (113:318.)
      By Shaemas O’Sheel. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Oct. 18, ’24. (1:197.)
      By Raymond Weaver. Book. (N. Y.) Nov., ’24. (60:262.)


                                   I

  Ibáñez, Vicente Blasco. _See_ Blasco, Ibáñez Vicente.

  Irving, Washington.
      By W. P. Beazell. World. May 3. (6 M.)
      By George S. Hellman. Book. (N. Y.) Apr. (61:144.)
      By William R. Langfeld. Int. Jun. (3:443.)
      By Arthur Bartlett Maurice. Out. (N. Y.) May 27. (140:156.)
      By Lloyd Morris. N. Y. Times. Apr. 26. (3.)

  IRWIN, WALLACE.
      Algernon Blackwood. L. Rev. Mar. 7. (3.)
      Irvin S. Cobb. L. Rev. Mar. 14. (3.)


                                   J

  JACOBSON, J. G.
      Frank Harris. Pear. (Am.) Apr. (22.)

  JACOBY, JOHN E.
      Henry James. Cath. W. Sept. (121:854.)

  JAMES, HENRY.
      A Letter. Yale. Oct., ’24. (14:205.)

  James, Henry.
      By Thomas Beer. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Apr. 25.
      By Mrs. Belloc-Lowndes. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Sept. 19. (2:139.)
      By Ernest Boyd. Ind. Apr. 18. (114:448.)
      By Clarence Clough Bull. L. Rev. May 9. (6.)
      By Joseph Collins. Book. (N. Y.) Jun. (61:477.)
      By Henry Blake Fuller. N. Y. Times. Apr. 19. (4.)
      By Alyse Gregory. Dial. Sept. (79:235.)
      By John E. Jacoby. Cath. W. Sept. (121:854.)
      By James McLane. Yale. Oct., ’24. (14:205.)
      By William Lyon Phelps. Int. Jul., ’25. (3:521.)
      By Elfrida H. Pope. Sat. R. (N. Y.) July 11. (1:902.)
      By Ben Ray Redman. N. Y. World. Apr. 19. (6 M.)
      By E. S. Roscoe. Book. (N. Y.) Jan. (60:584.)
      By Carl Van Doren. Cen. Sept. (110:637.)

  Japanese Short Stories.
      By Herschel Brickell. L. Rev. Jan. 3. (3.)
      By Rinsaku Tsunoda. W. Tom. Jun. (8:189.)

  JEFFREYS, CAREY.
      Rex Beach. L. Rev. Aug. 8. (2.)

  Jewett, Sarah Orne.
      By Gerald Hewes Carson. Book. (N. Y.) Jul. (61:594.)
      By Richard Le Gallienne. N. Y. Times. Apr. 19. (2.)
      By Fred Lewis Pattee. N. Y. Sun. Apr. 18. (6.)

  JONES, LLEWELLYN.
      H. G. Wells. C. E. P. Oct. 24, ’24. (1.)

  JOSEPHSON, MATTHEW.
      Kenneth Burke. Books. Nov. 16, ’24. (4.)
      Continental Short Story. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Jan. 10. (1:443.)

  Joyce, James.
      By Ernest Boyd. World. Jan. 25. (9.)
      By Bernard Gilbert. D. D. Jun. (7:174.)
      By Lloyd Morris. Int. Apr. (3:321.)
      By Edith Rickert. N. Rep. Jan. 7. (41:181.)
      By Edmund Wilson. Dial. Nov. ’24. (77:430.)


                                   K

  Kafka, Franz.
      By William Bolitho. World. Feb. 8. (6.)

  Kallas, Aino.
      By Vivien Radcliffe Bowker. Int. Sept. (3:603.)

  KATZIN, WINIFRED.
      Katherine Mansfield. Int. Feb. (3:212.)

  Kaye-Smith, Sheila.
      By Fletcher Allen. Int. Sept., ’24. (2:726.)

  KEITH, KATHERINE.
      Louis Hémon. N. Rep. Oct. 15, ’24. (40:183.)

  Kennard, Sir Coleridge.
      By Russell Wright. Books. Sept. 20. (11.)

  Kennedy, R. Emmett.
      By Margery Latimer. Books. Dec. 14, ’24. (8.)
      By Jean West Maury. For. Jun. (73:927.)
      By C. McD. Puckette. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Jan. 3. (1:427.)
      By Edwin D. Sheers. Opp. Jun. (3:182.)

  KENTON, EDNA.
      Ambrose Bierce. Book. (N. Y.) Sept. (62:77.)

  King, Grace.
      By Earl Sparling. L. Rev. Mar. 14. (2.)

  Kipling, Rudyard.
      By R. Thurston Hopkins. Liv. A. Nov. 8, ’24. (323:342.)
      By Grant Overton. Book. (N. Y.) Mar. (61:65.)
      By Alexander G. Stewart. Int. Jan. (3:100.)

  KIRCHWEY, FREDA.
      British Short Story. Books. Jan. 4. (4.)

  KOLARS, MARY.
      John Galsworthy. Books. Sept. 6. (4 V.)

  KRONENBERGER, LOUIS.
      Maxim Gorky. N. Y. Times. Jun. 14. (9.)
      D. H. Lawrence. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Aug. 1. (2:4.)
      Thomas Mann. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Jun. 27. (1:851.)

  KRUTCH, JOSEPH WOOD.
      Michael Arlen. World. May 24. (4 M.)
      Arnold Bennett. Books. Nov. 9, ’24. (4.)
      British Short Story. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Jan. 24. (1:475.)
      Aldous Huxley. Nat. (N. Y.) Feb. 5, ’24. (119:499.)
      Thomas Mann. Nat. (N. Y.) Mar. 25. (120:330.)
      Boris Pilniak. Nat. (N. Y.) Feb. 11. (120:163.)
      Aleksei Remizov. Nat. (N. Y.) Apr. 29. (120:496.)
      Osbert Sitwell. Nat. (N. Y.) Apr. 29. (120:496.)


                                   L

  Lagerlöf, Selma.
      By Isaac Anderson. Int. Nov., ’24. (2:890.)
      By Velma Swanston Howard. Int. Nov., ’24. (2:890.)

  LAIRD, CHARLTON.
      Joseph Conrad. I. L. M. May. (42.)

  LANGFELD, WILLIAM R.
      Washington Irving. Int. Jun. (3:443.)

  LARDNER, RING W.
      Konrad Bercovici. L. Rev. Oct. 18, ’24. (3.)

  Lardner, Ring W.
      By Donald Douglas. Int. May. (3:409.)
      By Robert Littell. N. Rep. Apr. 15. (Suppl., 1.)
      By H. L. Mencken. A. Merc. Jul., ’24. (2:376.)
      By Flora Merrill. World. May 10. (1 M.)
      By Grant Overton. Book. (N. Y.) Sept. (62:44.)
      By D. R. Ind. May 23. (114:590.)
      By Gilbert Seldes. V. F. (N. Y.) Jul. (45.)
      By Lawrence Stallings. N. Y. World. Apr. 13. (11.)
      By Henry Longan Stuart. N. Y. Times. Apr. 19. (1.)
      By Walter Tittle. Cen. Jul. (110:305.)
      By Virginia Woolf. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Aug. 1. (2:1.)

  LATIMER, MARGERY.
      A. E. Coppard. Books. Sept. 6. (5 V.)
      R. Emmet Kennedy. Books. Dec. 14, ’24. (8.)
      Charles Merz. Books. Nov. 2, ’24. (2.)
      Julia Peterkin. Books. Dec. 14, ’24. (8.)

  Lawrence, D. H.
      By John W. Crawford. World. Jul. 5. (95.)
      By Louise Maunsell Field. Int. Aug. (3:613.)
      By Louis Kronenberger. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Aug. 1. (2:4.)
      By Robert Littell. N. Rep. Jul. 8. (43:184.)
      By Edwin Muir. Nat. (N. Y.) Feb. 11. (120:148.)
      By Vance Palmer. Ind. Apr. 11. (114:414.)
      By Edith Rickert. N. Rep. Jan. 7. (41:181.)
      By Carl Van Doren. Cen. Sept. (110:639.)
      By Eliseo Vivas. Guar. (Am.) Apr. (1:267.)

  LEE, LAWRENCE.
      E. Earl Sparling. Int. May. (3:427.)

  LEE, MUNA.
      Manuel Gonzales Zeledon. (Mayon.) N. Y. Times. Jul. 5. (9.)

  LEFÉVRE, FREDERIC.
      Arnold Bennett. Liv. A. Mar. 28. (324:691.)
      Thomas Hardy. Liv. A. Apr. 11. (325:98.)

  LE GALLIENNE, RICHARD.
      Sarah Orne Jewett. N. Y. Times. Apr. 19. (2.)

  LENGYEL, EMIL.
      France, Anatole. N. Y. Times. Aug. 23. (5.)

  LESLIE, SHANE.
      Michael Arlen. Int. Oct., ’24. (2:769.)
      Stephen Crane. L. Rev. Jan. 3. (7.)

  LEVERIDGE, JULIAN.
      Leonid Andreyev. L. Rev. Jan. 10. (2.)

  LEWIS, SINCLAIR.
      Sherwood Anderson. Books. Nov. 9, ’24. (1.)

  LIEBERMAN, ELIAS.
      Louis Golding. Am. H. Jul. 31. (117:355.)

  Linati, Carlo.
      By William Bolitho. World. Jul. 26. (3 M.)

  Lincoln, Joseph C.
      By Arnold Patrick. Book. (N. Y.) Jan. (60:593.)

  LIPTON, LAWRENCE.
      Charles Collins. Pear. (Am.) Apr. (53.)

  LITTELL, ROBERT.
      Ambrose Bierce. N. Rep. Oct. 15, ’24. (40:177.)
      Anton Chekhov. N. Rep. Mar. 25. (42:131.)
      Joseph Conrad. N. Rep. Feb. 4. (41:287.)
      Anatole France. N. Rep. Nov. 5, ’24. (40:250.)
      Ring W. Lardner. N. Rep. Apr. 15. (Suppl. 1.)
      D. H. Lawrence. N. Rep. Jul. 8. (43:184.)

  LIVINGSTON, ARTHUR.
      Vicente Blasco Ibáñez. Int. Jul. (3:543.)

  LONDON, CHARMIAN.
      Jack London. Cos. Oct., ’24. (78.)

  London, Jack.
      By Louis Allen. Dear. Ind. May 16. (2.)
      By Charmian London. Cos. Oct., ’24. (78.)
      By William McFee. N. Y. Sun. Mar. 28. (6.)

  Longstreet, Augustus B.
      By Edgar Legare Pennington. Int. Oct., ’24. (2:788.)

  Louÿs, Pierre.
      By Paul Souday. N. Y. Times. May 17. (16.)
      By Ruth Willis Thompson. L. Rev. Sept. 12. (5.)

  LOVETT, ROBERT MORSS.
      Conrad Aiken. N. Rep. Jul. 22. (43:242.)
      Sherwood Anderson. N. Rep. Nov. 5, ’24. (40:255.)
      Michael Arlen. N. Rep. Dec. 10, ’24. (41:8.)
      Ethel Colburn Mayne. N. Rep. Jul. 2. (43:242.)

  LOVING, PIERRE.
      Anatole France. Guar. (Am.) Apr. (1:276.)

  LOWENTHAL, MARVIN.
      Anatole France. Men. J. Feb. (11:14.)

  Lynd, Sylvia.
      By Ernest Boyd. Ind. May 9. (114:533.)
      By Lewis Mumford. N. Rep. Jun. 24. (43:132.)


                                   M

  M.
      American Short Story. World. Jul. 5. (95.)

  McAlmon, Robert.
      By Ford Madox Ford. L. Rev. Jan. 3. (1.)

  MCFEE, WILLIAM.
      Stacy Aumonier. N. Y. Sun. Feb. 14. (7.)
      British Short Story. N. Y. Trib. Dec. 14.
      Joseph Conrad. N. Y. Sun. Jan. 31. (7.) Book. (N. Y.) Jun.
        (61:500.)
      Jack London. N. Y. Sun. Mar. 28. (61.)

  McKenna, Stephen.
      By Leonard Cline. Books. Sept. 27. (12 V.)
      By Dawn Powell. L. Rev. Sept. 20. (3.)

  MCLANE, JAMES.
      Henry James. Yale. Oct., ’24. (14:205.)

  Machen, Arthur.
      By Samuel C. Chew. N. Y. Sun. Apr. 18. (6.)
      By John Gunther. Book. (N. Y.) Jul. (61:571.)

  MacMechan, Archibald.
      By Fraser Bond. N. Y. Times. Jun. 14. (19.)

  MACY, JOHN.
      Anatole France. Nat. (N. Y.) Nov. 5, ’24. (119:487.)

  MANKIEWICZ, HERMAN J.
      Michael Arlen. N. Y. Times. Mar. 22. (2.) May 31. (5.)

  Mann, Thomas.
      Anonymous. N. Y. Times. Feb. 22. (9.)
      By Edwin Björkman. L. Rev. Feb. 28. (3.)
      By H. W. Boynton. N. Y. Sun. Feb. 28. (7.)
      By William A. Drake. Books. Feb. 1. (7.)
      By Louis Kronenberger. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Jun. 27. (1:851.)
      By Joseph Wood Krutch. Nat. (N. Y.) Mar. 25. (120:330.)
      By Aldo Sorani. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Aug. 1. (2:13.)
      By Cuthbert Wright. Dial. May. (78:420.)

  Mansfield, Katherine.
      By Richard Aldington. L. Rev. Jan. 10. (8.) N. Rep. Oct 22 ’24
        (40–207.)
      By Grace Z. Brown. Book. (N. Y.) Aug. (61:687.)
      By Winifred Katzin. Int. Feb. (3:212.)
      By John Montgomery. D. D. Nov.–Dec., ’24. (7:73.)
      By A. R. Orage. Cen. Nov., ’24. (109:36.)
      By Mary Ross. Books. Oct. 19, ’24. (3.)
      By T. K. Whipple. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Dec. 6. ’24. (1:342.)

  MARAN, RENÉ.
      Anatole France. Opp. Dec., ’24. (2:370.)

  MARCH, JOSEPH M.
      Charles J. Finger. N. Y. Times. Dec. 28, ’24. (15.)

  MARKEY, MORRIS.
      Rex Beach. Int. Sept. (3:681.)
      Julian Street. Int. Aug. (3:618.)

  Marquis, Don.
      By Stuart P. Sherman. Books. Feb. 8. (1.)

  MARTIN, DAVID.
      Michael Arlen. Book. (N. Y.) Nov., ’24. (60:293.)

  MARTIN, DOROTHY.
      John Galsworthy. Yale. Oct., ’24. (14:126.)

  Maupassant, Guy de.
      By Paul Souday. N. Y. Times. Sept. 13. (7.)
      By Henry Longan Stuart. N. Y. Sun. Jan. 17. (6.)

  MAURICE, ARTHUR BARTLETT.
      Richard Harding Davis. Int. Jun. (3:438.)
      A. Conan Doyle. Int. Nov., ’24. (2:877.)
      Anatole France. Outl. (N. Y.) Oct. 22, ’24. (138:296.)
      Washington Irving. Outl. (N. Y.) May 27. (140:156.)

  MAURY, JEAN WEST.
      R. Emmet Kennedy. For. Jun. (73:927.)

  Maxwell, W. B.
      By Grant Overton. Book. (N. Y.) Jan. (60:611.)

  Mayne, Ethel Colburn.
      By Robert Morss Lovett. N. Rep. Jul. 22. (43:242.)

  MEADOWS, GEORGE D.
      James Branch Cabell. Cath. W. Aug. (121:705.)

  MENCKEN, H. L.
      Arnold Bennett. World. Sept. 13. (4 M.)
      Ambrose Bierce. N. Y. World. Mar. 1. (3 E.)
      Joseph Conrad. A. Merc. Apr. (4:505.)
      Ring W. Lardner. A. Merc. Jul., ’24. (2:376.)
      Edgar Allan Poe. World. Aug. 16. (3 M.)
      Short Story. World. Feb. 22. (3 E.)
      Robert Louis Stevenson. A. Merc. Nov., ’24. (3:278.) Jan (4:125.)

  MERRILL, FLORA.
      Sherwood Anderson. World. Mar. 22. (1 M.)
      Edna Ferber. World. May 3. (1 M.)
      Ring W. Lardner. World. May 10. (1 M.)
      Booth Tarkington. World. Jun. 21. (1 M.)
      Mary Heaton Vorse. World. Jul. 12. (5 M.)

  Merz, Charles.
      By Margery Latimer. Books. Nov. 2, ’24. (2.)
      By Johan J. Smertenko. Nat. (N. Y.) Apr. 22. (120:469.)

  Meynell, Viola.
      By Louise Bogan. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Apr. 25. (1:703.)
      By Louise Maunsell Field. L. Rev. May 29. (3.)
      By Clarence H. Garnier. N. A. Rev. Sept.–Nov. (222:163.)
      By Lewis Mumford. N. Rep. Jun. 24. (43:132.)
      By Mary Ross. Books. Apr. 12. (4.)

  MITCHELL JOHN E.
      Russian Short Stories. World. Mar. 29. (7 M.)
      Short Stories. World. May 3. (7 M.)

  Montague, C. E.
      By Stephen Gwynn. Yale. Jul. (14:811.)

  MONTGOMERY, JOHN.
      Katherine Mansfield. D. D. Nov.–Dec., ’24. (7:73.)

  Moore, George.
      By Virginia Rice. Book. (N. Y.) Jun. (61:431.)

  MORAND, PAUL.
      Short Story. Dial. Jan. (78:51.)

  Morand, Paul.
      By Ernest Boyd. Ind. Aug. 1. (115:135.)
      By John Mosher. Pear. (Am.) Feb. (51:52.)
      By Paul Souday. N. Y. Times. Jul. 5. (16.)

  MORISON, SAMUEL ELIOT.
      Lincoln Colcord. Yale. Oct., ’24. (14:195.)

  MORLEY, CHRISTOPHER.
      Sherwood Anderson. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Aug. 15. (2:43.)
      Joseph Conrad. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Dec. 27, ’24. (1:415.) Apr. 25.
        (1:707.)

  MORLEY, FRANK V.
      H. M. Tomlinson. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Dec. 27, ’24. (1:409.)

  MORRIS, LLOYD.
      American Short Story. N. Y. Times. Jan. 18. (6.)
      Sherwood Anderson. N. Y. Times. Oct. 12, ’24. (6.)
      Washington Irving. N. Y. Times. Apr. 26. (3.)
      James Joyce. Int. Apr. (3:321.)

  MOSHER, JOHN.
      Paul Morand. Pear. (Am.) Feb. (51:52.)

  MOTT, FRANK LUTHER.
      Sherwood Anderson. Mid. Jan. 15. (11:54.)

  MOULT, THOMAS.
      Joseph Conrad. Yale. Jan. (14:295.)
      Anatole France. Book. (N. Y.) Dec., ’24. (60:465.)

  MUIR, EDWIN.
      D. H. Lawrence. Nat. (N. Y.) Feb. 11. (120:148.)

  MULKINS, DORA.
      Julia Peterkin. Int. Jan. (3:138.)

  MUMFORD, LEWIS.
      Sylvia Lynd. N. Rep. Jun. 24. (43:132.)
      Viola Meynell. N. Rep. Jun. 24. (43:132.)

  MUNSON, GORHAM B.
      Kenneth Burke. L. Rev. Oct. 11, ’24. (3.)
      Jean Toomer. Opp. Sept. (3:262.)

  Musset, Alfred de.
      By John Ellingston. N. Y. Times. Aug. 2. (5.)


                                   N

  NAZAROFF, ALEXANDER I.
      Ivan Bunin. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Feb. 7. (1:512.)
      Fyodor Dostoevsky. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Aug. 8. (2:30.) N. Y. Times.
        Jul. 19. (9.)
      Maxim Gorky. N. Y. Times. Jan. 4. (11.)
      Alexander Pushkin. Int. Nov., ’24. (2:864.)
      Lyof Tolstoy. N. Y. Times. Aug. 16. (1.)

  NEVINS, ALLAN.
      Vicente Blasco Ibáñez. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Jul. 4. (1:871.)

  NEWMAN, C. A.
      Charles J. Finger. Dear. Ind. May 21. (14.)

  NILES, ABBIE.
      Russian Short Stories. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Mar. 28. (1:627.)

  NILES, E. A.
      Aldous Huxley. Ind. Oct. 25, ’24. (113:318.)

  Norris, Kathleen.
      By Patrick Arnold. Book. (N. Y.) Jul. (61:563.)

  Noyes, Alfred.
      By Stella Heilbrunn. Int. Mar. (3:287.)


                                   O

  O’BRIEN, EDWARD J.
      American Short Story. L. Rev. Apr. 11. (2.)

  Ogawa, Mimei.
      By John Carter. N. Y. Times. Jul. 26. (1.)

  O’HIGGINS, HARVEY.
      Fictionist’s Problem. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Oct. 11, ’24. (177.)

  OLGIN, MOISSAYE J.
      Russian Short Stories. Work. May. (325.)

  ORAGE, A. R.
      Katherine Mansfield. Cen. Nov., ’24. (109:36.)

  O’SHEEL, SHAEMAS.
      Aldous Huxley. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Oct. 18, ’24. (1:197.)

  OVERTON, GRANT.
      Ellen Glasgow. Book. (N. Y.) May. (61:291.)
      Rudyard Kipling. Book. (N. Y.) Mar. (61:65.)
      Ring W. Lardner. Book. (N. Y.) Sept. (62:44.)
      W. B. Maxwell. Book. (N. Y.) Jan. (60:611.)
      Rafael Sabatini. Book. (N. Y.) Feb. (60:728.)
      Albert Payson Terhune. Book. (N. Y.) Jun. (61:445.)


                                   P

  Page, Thomas Nelson.
      By Arthur H. Quinn. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Mar. 21. (1:609.)

  PALMER, VANCE.
      D. H. Lawrence. Ind. Apr. 11. (114:414.)

  PATERSON, ISABEL.
      Short Story. Books. Jan. 4. (12.)

  PATRICK, ARNOLD.
      Edna Ferber. Book. (N. Y.) Apr. (61:164.)
      Joseph C. Lincoln. Book. (N. Y.) Jan. (60:593.)
      Kathleen Norris. Book. (N. Y.) Jul. (61:563.)

  PATTEE, FRED LEWIS.
      Sarah Orne Jewett. N. Y. Sun. Apr. 18. (6.)

  PEARSON, EDMUND LESTER.
      Michael Arlen. Outl. (N. Y.) Jun. 10. (140:221.)

  PENNINGTON, EDGAR LEGARE.
      Augustus B. Longstreet. Int. Oct., ’24. (2:788.)

  PENTIFER, JOHN.
      American Short Story. A. Merc. Jan. (4:90.)

  Peterkin, Julia.
      By Margery Latimer. Books. Dec. 14, ’24. (8.)
      By Dora-Mulkins. Int. Jan. (3:138.)

  PHELPS, WILLIAM LYON.
      Anatole France. Scr. Feb. (77:210.)
      Thomas Hardy. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Jun. 6. (1:808.)
      Henry James. Int. Jul. (3:521.)

  PICKENS, VINTON LIDDELL.
      Maxim Gorky. Rev. Jul. (5:109.)

  Pilniak, Boris.
      By Herschel Brickell. L. Rev. Jan. 17. (6.)
      By William A. Drake. Books. Mar. 8. (7.)
      By Joseph Wood Krutch. Nat. (N. Y.) Feb. 11. (120:163.)
      By Arthur Ruhl. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Mar. 14. (1:595.)
      By Avrahm Yarmolinsky. Books. Mar. 15. (11.)

  Pirandello, Luigi.
      By F. Vinci Roman. Pear. (Am.) Feb. (51:36.)

  Poe, Edgar Allan.
      By Edwin A. Alderman. Va. Apr. (1:78.)
      Anonymous. Nat. (N. Y.) Dec. 10, ’24. (119:615.)
      By John Jay Chapman. N. Y. Times. Nov. 2, ’24. (2.)
      By George De Mille. A. Merc. Apr. (4:433.)
      By H. L. Mencken. World. Aug. 16. (3 M.)
      By Paul Souday. N. Y. Times. Feb. 22. (11.)
      By Stanley T. Williams. Yale. Jul. (14:756.)

  Poole, Ernest.
      By Dorothy Bacon Woolsey. N. Rep. Sept. 23. (44:129.)

  POPE, ELFRIDA H.
      Henry James. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Jul. 11. (1:902.)

  POWELL, DAWN.
      Stephen McKenna. L. Rev. Sept. 20. (30.)

  POWYS, JOHN COWPER.
      Llewellyn Powys. Cen. Sept. (110:553.)
      T. F. Powys. Cen. Sept. (110:553.)

  POWYS, LLEWELLYN.
      Sherwood Anderson. Dial. Apr. (78:330.)
      E. L. Grant Watson. Books. Feb. 15. (4.)
      Pauline Smith. Books. Apr. 19. (6.)

  Powys, Llewellyn.
      Anonymous. Books. Aug. 30. (5 V.)
      By John Cowper Powys. Cen. Sept. (110:553.)

  Powys, T. F.
      By John Cowper Powys. Cen. Sept. (110:553.)

  PRESTON, JOHN HYDE.
      Joseph Conrad. Int. Jan. (3:137.)

  Puccini, Mario.
      By William Bolitho. World. Feb. 15. (6.)

  PUCKETTE C. MCD.
      R. Emmet Kennedy. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Jan. 3. (1:427.)

  Pushkin, Alexander.
      By Alexander I. Nazaroff. Int. Nov., ’24. (2:864.)


                                   Q

  QUICK, MARETTE.
      George Gissing. Guar. (Am.) Apr. (1:274.)

  QUINN, ARTHUR H.
      George W. Cable. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Mar. 21. (1:609.)
      Thomas Nelson Page. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Mar. 21. (1:609.)
      F. Hopkinson Smith. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Mar. 21. (1:609.)


                                   R

  R., D.
      Ring W. Lardner. Ind. May 23. (114:590.)

  RADZIWILL, PRINCESS.
      Leonid Andreyev. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Oct. 4, ’24. (1:164.)
      Honoré de Balzac. For. Jan. (73:40.) Feb. (73:189.)
      Anatole France. For. Dec., ’24. (72:827.)

  RAMSAY, JANET.
      American Short Story. Books. Aug. 16. (10.)

  RAMSAY, R. L.
      American Short Story. L. Rev. May 9. (14.)

  RASCOE, BURTON.
      James Branch Cabell. Nat. (N. Y.) Apr. 29. (120:494.)
      Anatole France. Book. (N. Y.) Nov., ’24. (60:337.)
      Waldo Frank. A. D. Oct., ’24. (41.)
      Glenway Wescott. A. D. Oct., ’24. (41.)

  REDMAN, BEN RAY.
      James Branch Cabell. Int. Nov., ’24. (2:860.)
      Henry James. World. Apr. 19. (6 M.)

  Rejmont, Ladislas.
      Anonymous. Liv. A. Jan. 17. (324:176.)
      By Ernest Boyd. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Nov. 29, ’24. (1:317.)
      By Rupert Hughes. Int. Feb. (3:170.)
      By Stender-Petersen. Liv. A. Jan. 17. (324:165.)

  Remizov, Aleksei.
      By Herschel Brickell. L. Rev. Jan. 17. (6.)
      By William A. Drake. Books. Mar. 8. (7.)
      By Joseph Wood Krutch. Nat. (N. Y.) Feb. 11. (120:163.)
      By Avrahm Yarmolinsky. Books. Mar. 15. (11.)

  REUTER, GABRIELE.
      Albrecht Schaffer. N. Y. Times. Jun. 14. (20.)
      Frank Theiss. N. Y. Times. Jun. 14. (20.)
      Jakob Wassermann. N. Y. Times. Jun. 14. (20.)

  RICE, VIRGINIA.
      George Moore. Book. (N. Y.) Jun. (61:431.)

  RICKERT, EDITH.
      James Joyce. N. Rep. Jan. 7. (41:181.)
      D. H. Lawrence. N. Rep. Jan. 7. (41:181.)

  ROBERTS, CECIL.
      Joseph Conrad. Book. (N. Y.) Jul. (61:536.)

  ROMAN, F. VINCI.
      Luigi Pirandello. Pear. (Am.) Feb. (51:36.)

  ROSCOE, E. S.
      Henry James. Book. (N. Y.) Jan. (60:584.)

  ROSS, MARY.
      Katharine Mansfield. Books. Oct. 19, ’24. (3.)
      Viola Meynell. Books. Apr. 12. (4.)
      Osbert Sitwell. Books. Mar. 22. (11.)

  RUHL, ARTHUR.
      Fyodor Dostoevsky. L. Rev. Oct. 11, ’24. (2.)
      Boris Pilniak. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Mar. 14. (1:595.)

  RUSSELL, OLAND D.
      Pauline Smith. L. Rev. Mar. 28. (12.)

  Russian Short Stories.
      By Eva Goldbeck. L. Rev. Apr. 11. (3.)
      By Betsy Greenebaum. N. Rep. May 27. (43:25.)
      By John E. Mitchell. World. Mar. 29. (7 M.)
      By Abbie Niles. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Mar. 28. (1:627.)
      By Moissaye J. Olgin. Work. May. (325.)
      By Johan J. Smertenko. Nat. (N. Y.) Apr. 22. (120:469.)
      By Avrahm Yarmolinsky. Books. Apr. 19. (11.)


                                   S

  Sabatini, Rafael.
      By John Gunther. Int. Mar. (3:252.)
      By Grant Overton. Book. (N. Y.) Feb. (60:728.)

  Sackville-West, V.
      By Joseph Collins. L. Rev. Aug. 1. (2.)
      By John Crawford. N. Y. Times. Jul. 5. (13.)

  SALPETER, HARRY.
      Anatole France. World. Feb. 8. (6.)
      John Galsworthy. Int. Sept. (3:678.)
      Lafcadio Hearn. World. Jan. 25. (9.)

  SALTUS, EDGAR.
      W. L. George. Pear. (Am.) Apr. (17.)

  SANBORN, PITTS.
      Anatole France. Nat. (N. Y.) Nov. 5, ’24. (119:489.)

  Schaffer, Albrecht.
      By Gabriele Reuter. N. Y. Times. Jun. 14. (20.)

  Schreiner, Olive.
      By Jim Tully. Int. Sept. (3:653.)

  Schwob, Marcel.
      By R. F. Dibble. Nat. (N. Y.) Nov. 5, ’24. (119:500.)

  SELDES, GILBERT.
      Ring W. Lardner. V. F. (N. Y.) Jul. (45.)

  SERGEANT, ELIZABETH SHEPLEY.
      Willa Cather. N. Rep. Jun. 17. (43:91.)

  SHEERS, EDWIN D.
      R. Emmet Kennedy. Opp. Jun. (3:182.)

  SHEPARD, BROOKS.
      Pauline Smith. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Apr. 25. (1:703.)

  SHEPHERD, WILLIAM G.
      Richard Harding Davis. Col. Nov. 29, ’24. (39.)

  SHERIDAN, MARY J.
      James Branch Cabell. I. L. M. May. (38.)

  SHERMAN, ELLEN BURNS.
      Joseph Conrad. Books. Nov. 23, ’24. (11.)

  SHERMAN, STUART P.
      Joseph Conrad. Books. Dec. 28, ’24. (1.)
      Theodore Dreiser. Books. Aug. 23. (4 V.)
      Anatole France. Books. Oct. 26, ’24. (1.)
      Don Marquis. Books. Feb. 8. (11.)
      Robert Louis Stevenson. Books. Nov. 23, ’24. (1.)

  SHIPLEY, JOSEPH T.
      Leonid Andreyev. Guar. (Am.) Apr. (1:261.)
      Anatole France. Guar. (Am.) Dec., ’24. (1:1.)

  SHORE, W. TEIGNMOUTH.
      G. K. Chesterton. Dear. Ind. May 2. (2.)

  Short Story.
      Anonymous. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Dec. 27, ’24. (1:409.) N. Y. Times.
        Dec. 28, ’24. (12.)
      By Hansell Baugh. Rev. Jul. (5:105.)
      By Gerald Hewes Carson. Book. (N. Y.) Feb. (60:769.)
      By John Cournos. L. Rev. Oct. 11, ’24. (1.)
      By N. Bryllion Fagin. D. D. Jan.–Feb. (7:116.) Int. Apr. (3:301.)
      By Henry L. Mencken. World. Feb. 22. (3 E.)
      By John E. Mitchell. World. May 3. (7 M.)
      By Paul Morand. Dial. Jan. (78:51.)
      By Isabel Paterson. Books. Jan. 4. (11.)
      By Carl Van Doren. Nat. (N. Y.) Dec. 24, ’24. (119:711.)
      By Edith Wharton. Scr. Apr. (77:344.)

  SHUSTER, GEORGE N.
      Robert Louis Stevenson. Cath. W. Oct., ’24. (120:89.)

  SIFTON, PAUL F.
      American Short Story. World. Feb. 22. (7.)

  Sitwell, Osbert.
      Anonymous. N. Y. Times. Mar. 1. (6.)
      By Joseph Wood Krutch. Nat. (N. Y.) Apr. 29. (120:496.)
      By Mary Ross. Books. Mar. 22. (11.)
      By Lawrence Stallings. World. Mar. 27. (13.)
      By Allan Updegraff. N. Y. Sun. Mar. 28. (7.)
      By Glenway Wescott. Dial. Jun. (78:507.)

  SMERTENKO, JOHAN J.
      American Short Story. Nat. (N. Y.) Apr. 22. (120:469.)
      British Short Story. Nat. (N. Y.) Apr. 22. (120:469.)
      George F. Hummel. Nat. (N. Y.) Apr. 22. (120:469.)
      Charles Merz. Nat. (N. Y.) Apr. 22. (120:469.)
      Russian Short Stories. Nat. (N. Y.) Apr. 22. (120:469.)
      Giovanni Verga. Nat. (N. Y.) Apr. 22. (120:469.)
      Emile Verhaeren. Nat. (N. Y.) Apr. 22. (120:469.)
      Stefan Zweig. Books. Aug. 16. (5 V.)

  Smith, F. Hopkinson.
      By Arthur H. Quinn. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Mar. 21. (1:609.)

  SMITH, HARRISON.
      Thomas Boyd. Books. Apr. 26. (11.)

  SMITH, NORA ARCHIBALD.
      Kate Douglas Wiggin. Book. (N. Y.) May. (61:281.)

  Smith, Pauline.
      By Llewellyn Powys. Books. Apr. 19. (6.)
      By Oland D. Russell. L. Rev. Mar. 28. (12.)
      By Brooks Shepard. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Apr. 25. (1:703.)

  SORANI, ALDO.
      Thomas Mann. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Aug. 1. (2:13.)

  SOUDAY, PAUL.
      Jules Barbey d’Aurevilly. N. Y. Times. Jul. 19. (12.)
      Paul Bourget. N. Y. Times. Apr. 5. (10.)
      Anatole France. N. Y Times. Dec. 14, ’24. (8.)
      Pierre Louÿs. N. Y. Times. May 17. (16.)
      Guy de Maupassant. N. Y. Times. Sept. 13. (7.)
      Paul Morand. N. Y. Times. Jul. 5. (16.)
      Edgar Allan Poe. N. Y. Times. Feb. 22. (11.)
      Jules Tellier. N. Y. Times. Sept. 20. (11.)

  Sparling, E. Earl.
      By Grace King. L. Rev. Mar. 14. (12.)
      By Lawrence Lee. Int. May. (3:427.)

  Squire, J. C.
      By Lisle Bell. Books. Mar. 8. (11.)
      By H. W. Boynton. N. Y. Sun. Feb. 2.
      By E. V. N. Rep. Apr. 22. (42:246.)

  STAGG, HUNTER.
      Edith Wharton. Rev. Jul. (5:98.)

  STALLINGS, LAWRENCE.
      Ring W. Lardner. World. Apr. 13. (11.)
      Osbert Sitwell. World. Mar. 27. (13.)

  STARRETT, VINCENT.
      Richard Harding Davis. Rev. Oct., ’24. (4:352.)

  STEDMAN, NATHAN P.
      Maxim Gorky. Int. Feb. (3:203.)

  Stein, Gertrude.
      By Mary Crockett. Mod. Q. Feb. (2:233.)

  Stephens, James.
      By Charles E. Aiken. Cath. W. Apr. (121:132.)

  STERLING, GEORGE.
      Ambrose Bierce. A. Merc. Sept., ’25. (6:10.)

  Sternheim, Carl.
      By William A. Drake. Books. Aug. 23. (7.)

  STEUART, JOHN A.
      Robert Louis Stevenson. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Jan. 24. (1:486.)

  Stevenson, Robert Louis.
      Anonymous. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Dec. 6, ’24. (1:339.)
      By Ernest Boyd. Ind. Dec. 13, ’24. (13:520.)
      By Clarence H. Gaines. N. A. Rev. Mar. (221:567.)
      By Clayton Hamilton. Int. Jan. (3:110.)
      By George S. Hellman. Book. (N. Y.) Jan. (60:575.)
      By A. B. de M. C. S. M. Oct. 25, ’24. (9.)
      By H. L. Mencken. A. Merc. Nov., ’24. (3:378.) Jan. (4:125.)
      By George N. Schuster. Cath. W. Oct., ’24. (120:89.)
      By Stuart P. Sherman. Books. Nov. 23, ’24. (1.)
      By John A. Steuart. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Jan. 24. (1:486.)
      By Frank Swinnerton. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Dec. 6, ’24. (:344.)
      By Frederic F. Van de Water. N. Y. Trib. Jan. 27. (18.)

  STEWART, ALEXANDER G.
      Rudyard Kipling. Int. Jan. (3:100.)

  STONE, MELVILLE E.
      A. Conan Doyle. L. Rev. Oct. 18, ’24. (1.)

  STORK, CHARLES WHARTON.
      Arnold Bennett. L. Rev. Jan. 3. (3.)

  Street, Julian.
      By Markey Morris. Int. Aug. (3:618.)

  Strong, L. A. G.
      By John Cournos. L. Rev. Sept. 5. (2.)

  STUART, HENRY LONGAN.
      Vicente Blasco Ibáñez. N. Y. Times. May 31. (9.)
      Thomas Hardy. N. Y. Sun. Jan. 19. (14.)
      Ring W. Lardner. N. Y. Times. Apr. 19. (1.)
      Guy de Maupassant. N. Y. Sun. Jan. 17. (6.)

  Sung-Ling, P’u.
      By John Carter. N. Y. Times. Mar. 29. (6.)

  SWINNERTON, FRANK.
      Robert Louis Stevenson. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Dec. 6, ’24. (1:344.)


                                   T

  Tarkington, Booth.
      By Flora Merrill. World. Jun. 21. (1 M.)

  TARTAK, ELIAS L.
      Anton Chekhov. J. T. Jan. 2. (16.)

  Tellier, Jules.
      By Paul Souday. N. Y. Times. Sept. 20. (11.)

  Terhune, Albert Payson.
      By Grant Overton. Book. (N. Y.) Jun. (61:445.)

  Theiss, Frank.
      By Gabriele Reuter. N. Y. Times. Jun. 14. (20.)

  THÉRIVE, ANDRÉ.
      Georges Duhamel. Liv. A. Sept. 12. (326:587.)

  THOMPSON, DOROTHY.
      Fyodor Dostoevsky. L. Rev. Jan. 3. (7.)

  THOMPSON, RUTH WILLIS.
      Pierre Louÿs. L. Rev. Sept. 12. (5.)

  TINKER, EDWARD LAROCQUE.
      “O. Henry.” Book. (N. Y.) Jun. (61:436.)

  TITTLE, WALTER.
      Willa Cather. Cen. Jul. (110:305.)
      Joseph Conrad. N. Y. Times. May 17. (2.) Outl. (N. Y.) Jul. 1.
        (140:333.) Jul. 8. (140:361.)
      Theodore Dreiser. Cen. Aug. (110:441.)
      Ring W. Lardner. Cen. Jul. (110:305.)
      Israel Zangwill. Cen. Oct., ’24. (108:798.)

  Tolstoy, Count Lyof.
      By Ernest Boyd. Ind. Jul. 4. (115:22.)
      By V. Bulgakov. McC. Aug. (1:538.)
      By John Cournos. L. Rev. Sept. 19. (2.)
      By Maxim Gorky. Dial. Feb. (78:96.)
      By Alexander I. Nazaroff. N. Y. Times. Aug. 16. (1.)

  Tomlinson, H. M.
      By Frank V. Morley. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Dec. 27, ’24. (1:409.)

  Toomer, Jean.
      By Gorham B. Munson. Opp. Sept. (3:262.)

  TOWNSEND, R. B.
      John Galsworthy. Outl. (N. Y.) Sept. 16. (114:98.)

  TSUNODA, RINSAKU.
      Japanese Short Stories. W. T. Jun. (8:189.)

  TULLY, JIM.
      Olive Schreiner. Int. Sept. (3:653.)


                                   U

  UPDEGRAFF, ALLAN.
      Osbert Sitwell. N. Y. Sun. Mar. 28. (7.)


                                   V

  VAILLANT-COUTURIER, PAUL.
      Anatole France. Nat. (N. Y.) Apr. 15. (120:406.)

  VAN DE WATER, FREDERIC F.
      Robert Louis Stevenson. N. Y. Trib. Jan. 27. (18.)

  VAN DOREN, CARL.
      Sherwood Anderson. Cen. Jul. (110:362.)
      James Branch Cabell. Int. Dec., ’24. (3:12.) Cen. Nov., ’24.
        (109:129.)
      Anatole France. Cen. Dec., ’24. (109:418.) Aug. (110:510.)
      Thomas Hardy. Cen. Jan. (109:418.)
      Henry James. Cen. Sept. (110:637.)
      D. H. Lawrence. Cen. Sept. (110:639.)
      Short Story. Nat. (N. Y.) Dec. 24, ’24. (119:711.)

  VAN DOREN, MARK.
      Joseph Conrad. Nat. (N. Y.) Jan. 14. (120:45.)
      Anatole France. Nat. (N. Y.) Nov. 5, ’24. (119:497.)
      John Galsworthy. Nat. (N. Y.) Sept. 2. (121:258.)

  Venezuelan Short Stories.
      By Harriet V. Wishnieff. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Nov. 8, ’24. (1:271.)

  Verga, Giovanni.
      By Johan J. Smertenko. Nat. (N. Y.) Apr. 22. (120:469.)
      By Domenico Vittonini. Guar. (Am.) Aug. (1:405.)
      By Eliseo Vivas. Books. Apr. 19. (15.)

  Verhaeren, Emile.
      By John Herrmann. Books. Feb. 22. (3.)
      By Johan J. Smertenko. Nat. (N. Y.) Apr. 22. (120:469.)

  VINCENT, ELIZABETH.
      Maxim Gorky. N. Rep. Feb. 25. (42:22.)

  VITTONINI, DOMENICO.
      Giovanni Verga. Guar. (Am.) Aug. (1:405.)

  VIVAS, ELISEO.
      D. H. Lawrence. Guar. (Am.) Apr. (1:267.)
      Giovanni Verga. Books. Apr. 19. (15.)

  Vorse, Mary Heaton.
      By Flora Merrill. World. Jul. 12. (5 M.)


                                   W

  WALKER, CHARLES R.
  Joseph Conrad. Ind. Feb. 7. (114:161.)

  WASSERMANN, EDWARD.
      Anatole France. Book. (N. Y.) Apr. (61:197.)

  Wassermann, Jakob.
      By Gabriele Reuter. N. Y. Times. Jun. 14. (20.)

  WEAVER, RAYMOND.
      Aldous Huxley. Book. (N. Y.) Nov., ’24. (60:262.)

  WEITZENHORN, LOUIS.
      Anatole France. World. Jun. 21. (4 M.)
      Thomas Hardy. World. Apr. 12. (6 M.)

  Wells, H. G.
      By Llewellyn Jones. C. E. P. Oct. 24, ’24. (1.)

  WESCOTT, GLENWAY.
      Kenneth Burke. Tr. Oct., ’24. (2:446.)
      Osbert Sitwell. Dial. Jun. (78:507.)

  Wescott, Glenway.
      By Burton Roscoe. A. D. Oct., ’24. (41.)

  WESTERGAARD, WALDEMAR.
      Jeppe Aakjaer. Scan. Nov., ’24. (12:665.)

  WHARTON, EDITH.
      Short Story. Scr. Apr. (77:344.)

  Wharton, Edith.
      By James L. Ford. Int. Oct., ’24. (2:785.)
      By Hunter Stagg. Rev. Jul. (5:98.)

  WHIPPLE, T. K.
      Katherine Mansfield. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Dec. 6, ’24. (1:342.)

  WIENER, LEO.
      Anton Chekhov. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Apr. 4. (1:646.)

  Wiggin, Kate Douglas.
      By Nora Archibald Smith. Book. (N. Y.) May. (61:281.)

  WILLIAMS, BLANCHE COLTON.
      American Short Story. N. Y. Sun. Jan. 31. (7.)
      Richard Washburn Child. N. Y. Sun. April. 18. (7.)

  WILLIAMS, STANLEY T.
      Stephen Crane. Yale. Oct., ’24. (14:172.)
      Edgar Allan Poe. Yale. Jul. (14:756.)

  WILSON, EDMUND.
      Anatole France. N. Rep. Feb. 11. (41:308.)
      Ernest Hemingway. Dial. Oct., ’24. (77:340.)
      James Joyce. Dial. Nov., ’24. (77:430.)

  Wilson, Harry Leon.
      By Myla Jo Closser. Book. (N. Y.) Jun. (61:458.)

  WILSON, JAMES SOUTHALL.
      James Branch Cabell. Va. Apr. (1:150.)

  WISHNIEFF, HARRIET V.
      Venezuelan Short Stories. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Nov. 8, ’24. (1:271.)

  WOLLSTEIN, R. HEYLBUT.
      American Short Story. Int. Mar. (3:249.)
      British Short Story. Int. Mar. (3:249.)

  WOOD, CLEMENT.
      Irvin S. Cobb. L. Rev. Oct. 18, ’24. (15.)

  WOODWARD, KATHLEEN.
      G. K. Chesterton. N. Y. Times. Jul. 12. (2.)

  WOOLF, VIRGINIA.
      Sherwood Anderson. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Aug. 1. (2:1.)
      Ring W. Lardner. Sat. R. (N. Y.) Aug. 1. (2:1.)

  Woolf, Virginia.
      By Clive Bell. Dial. Dec., ’24. (77:451.)

  WOOLSEY, DOROTHY BACON.
      Ernest Poole. N. Rep. Sept. 23. (44:129.)

  WRIGHT, CUTHBERT.
      Thomas Mann. Dial. May. (78:420.)

  WRIGHT RUSSELL.
      Sir Coleridge Kennard. Books. Sept. 20. (V 11.)

  WYMAN, ELIZABETH HEYWOOD.
      E. L. Grant Watson. Int. Mar. (3:285.)


                                   Y

  YARMOLINSKY, AVRAHM.
      Anton Chekhov. Guar. (Am.) May-Jun. (1:341.)
      Fyodor Dostoevsky. N. Y. Times. Jul. 19. (9.)
      Boris Pilniak. Books. Mar. 15. (11.)
      Aleksei Remizov. Books. Mar. 15. (11.)
      Russian Short Stories. Books. Apr. 19. (11.)

  Yiddish Short Story.
      By Elbert Aidline-Trommer. Men. J. Nov.–Dec., ’24. (10:515.)


                                   Z

  Zangwill, Israel.
      By Walter Tittle. Cen. Oct., ’24. (108:798.)

  Zeledon, Manuel Gonzales. (Mayon.)
      By Mona Lee. N. Y. Times. Jul. 5. (9.)

  Zweig, Stefan.
      By Johan J. Smertenko. Books. Aug. 16. (5 V.)




                    INDEX OF SHORT STORIES IN BOOKS

                   OCTOBER, 1924, TO SEPTEMBER, 1925

                           I. American Authors


                                   A

  ADAMS, SAMUEL HOPKINS. (1871– .) (_See 1923._)
    Such as Walk in Darkness. Gray. 227.

  ADE, GEORGE. (1866– .) (_See 1920._)
    The Feud. Aces, B. 3.

  AIKEN, CONRAD POTTER. (1889– .) (_See 1924._)
    Anniversary. Aiken. 211.
    Bring! Bring! Aiken. 11.
    By my Troth, Nerissa! Aiken. 93.
    Dark City. Aiken. 144.
    Disciple. Aiken. 56. Harper. 325.
    Escape from Fatuity. Aiken. 120.
    Hey, Taxi! Aiken. 132.
    Last Visit. Aiken. 171.
    Letter. Aiken. 186.
    Orange Moth. Aiken. 158.
    Smith and Jones. Aiken. 104.
    Soliloquy on a Park Bench. Aiken. 232.
    Strange Moonlight. Aiken. 37.

  ALEXANDER, CHARLES. (_See 1923._)
    As a Dog Should. Gray. 3.

  ANDERSON, SHERWOOD. (1876– .) (_See 1924._)
    I’m a Fool. Newman. 246.
    Mother. Robinson. 1.

  ANTIN, MARY (MARY ANTIN GRABAU). (1881– .)
    Malinka’s Atonement. Aces B. 7.

  ASCH, NATHAN. (1902– .)
    Gertrude Donovan. Humphrey A. 227.

  AUSTIN, WILLIAM. (1778–1841). (_See 1923._)
    Late Joseph Natterstrom. Austin C. 242.
    Man With the Cloaks. Austin C. 270.
    Martha Gardner, or Moral Reaction. Austin C. 257.
    Peter Rugg, the Missing Man. Austin C. 207.


                                   B

  BABCOCK, EDWINA STANTON.
    Wavering Gold. Harper. 188.

  BANNING, MARGARET CULKIN.
    Women Come to Judgment. Harper. 135.

  BARENTS, WILLIAM.
    Early Arctic Adventure. French K. 28.

  BARNES, DJUNA. (1892– .) (_See 1920._)
    Little Girl Tells a Story to a Lady. Contact. 1.

  BARTLETT, FREDERIC ORIN. (1876– .) (_See 1920._)
    Trap. Humphrey A. 3.

  BASSETT, FLETCHER S.
    Phantom Ship. French K. 276.

  BENET, STEPHEN VINCENT. (1898– .)
    Uriah’s Son. Prize F. 53.

  BERCOVICI, KONRAD. (1882– .) (_See 1924._)
    Drought. Aces B. 48.

  BIERCE, AMBROSE. (1842–1914?) (_See 1924._)
    Monk and the Hangman’s Daughter. Bierce C. 19.

  BIGGERS, EARL DERR (1884– .)
    Apron of Genius. Fox. 166.

  BOURKE, S. TEN EYCK.
    “Will of the Gods.” Fox. 126.

  BOYD, THOMAS.
    Kentucky Boy. Boyd B. 33.
    Little Gall. Boyd B. 165.
    Long Shot. Boyd B. 249.
    Nine Days’ Kitten. Boyd B. 219.
    Responsibility. Boyd B. 65.
    Ribbon Counter. Boyd B. 191.
    Rintintin. Boyd B. 131.
    Semper Fidelis. Boyd B. 317.
    “Sound Adjutant’s Call.” Boyd B. 97.
    Unadorned. Boyd B. 1.
    Uninvited. Boyd B. 299.

  BRADY, MARIEL.
    Autograph Album. Copy B. 25.

  BRAND, MAX.
    Bulldog. Gray. 37.

  BROWN, ALICE.
    Girl in the Tree. Harper. 160.

  BROWNE, PORTER EMERSON. (1879– .)
    Courtship of Miles Sheehan. Fox. 263.

  BRYSON, LYMAN LLOYD. (1888– .)
    Cyprian. Humphrey A. 214.

  BUCK, MITCHELL S.
    Courtesan. Buck 42.
    Greek. Buck. 66.
    Pharoah. Buck. 80.
    Priest. Buck. 56.
    Philosopher. Buck. 26.
    Shepherdess. Buck. 90.

  BUCKLEY, FREDERICK ROBERT WAKELIN.
    Primitive Method. World. 118.

  BUNNER, HENRY CUYLER. (1855–1896.) (_See 1923._)
    Love-Letters of Smith. Hastings. 120.

  BURKE, MORGAN. (1886– .)
    Champlin. O’Brien. N. 3.

  BURT, MAXWELL STRUTHERS. (1882– .) (_See 1922._)
    Force of Habit. Humphrey A. 291.

  “BYRNE, DONN.” (BRYAN OSWALD DONN-BYRNE.) (1888– .) (_See 1923._)
    Triangle. Gray. 259.


                                   C

  CABELL, JAMES BRANCH. (1879– .) (_See 1922._)
    Delta of Radegonde. Cabell E. 225.
    Thin Queen of Elfhame. Cabell E. 123.

  CABLE, GEORGE WASHINGTON. (1844–1925.) (_See 1923._)
    ’Sieur George. Hastings. 601.

  CANFIELD, DOROTHY. (DOROTHY CANFIELD FISHER.) (1879– .) (_See 1923._)
    Cage. Aces B. 72.
    Dr. Burke’s Cure. Fox. 252.
    Portrait of a Philosopher. Robinson 27.
    What “Really Happened.” Aces. 3.

  CARVER, ADA JACK.
    Redbone. Harper. 57.

  CATHER, WILLA SIBERT. (1875– .) (_See 1920._)
    Paul’s Case. Robinson. 44.
    Scandal. Aces B. 78.
    Sculptor’s Funeral. Hastings. 241.

  CHILD, RICHARD WASHBURN. (1881– .) (_See 1921._)
    Eyes of the Gazelle. Child B. 274.
    Fresh Waters. Child B. 1.
    Gorilla. Child B. 113.
    Here’s How. Child B. 51.
    Keats Shadd. Child B. 160.
    Lassiter. Fox. 296.
    Lure. Child B. 23.
    Man With the Metal Face. Child B. 84.
    Playthings. Child B. 185.
    Screen. Child B. 138.
    Story for a Certain Lady. Child B. 251.
    Strain of Blood. Child B. 233.
    Thirty Thousand Dollar Slap. Child B. 213.

  CHISHOLM, A. M.
    Tim of Bush Valley. World. 347.

  COATSWORTH, ELIZABETH J. (1893– .)
    Man Who Loved Wild Animals. Humphrey A. 209.

  COBB, IRVIN SHREWSBURY. (1876– .) (_See 1924._)
    Actor in Turn Meets Others. Cobb F. 207.
    Ancient History. Cobb F. 158.
    And Next Day Meets an Actor. Cobb F. 191.
    Boss Goes to a Show. Cobb F. 180.
    Cat Shows and Babies. Cobb F. 370.
    Cub is Being Weaned. Cobb F. 58.
    Fight Extra. Cobb F. 94.
    Found Among the Effects. Cobb F. 346.
    Full Page Ad. Cobb F. 48.
    How to Play Your Side Cards. Cobb F. 237.
    Job for the Reader. Cobb F. 214.
    Kind of a Feeling. Cobb F. 272.
    Not Exactly a Bookworm and Yet--. Cobb F. 227.
    Once Upon a Time. Cobb F. 11.
    One Evening at Sing Sing. Cobb F. 289.
    Player of Hunches. Cobb F. 145.
    Short Lecture on Bugs. Cobb F. 39.
    Smart Aleck. Robinson. 70.
    Southerners to Order. Cobb F. 254.
    Special Edition, Limited. Cobb F. 320.
    Standing Room Only. World. 42.
    Star Changes Hands. Cobb F. 349.
    Thirteenth Degree. Cobb F. 349.
    Three Way Trail. Cobb F. 307.
    Value of a Good Name. Cobb F. 264.
    Wasted Headline. Cobb F. 129.
    Who’s Who at the Zoo. Fox. 203.
    Will a Worm Turn? Cobb F. 115.

  COHEN, OCTAVUS ROY. (1891– .)
    Bass Ingratitude. Aces. 22.

  CONNELL, RICHARD. (1893– .) (_See 1924._)
    All Wrong. Connell C. 153.
    And the Nights Shall Be Filled with Music. Connell C. 119.
    Big Lord Fauntleroy. Connell C. 3.
    Great American Game. Connell C. 241.
    Hero of the Devil’s Kitchen. Connell C. 221.
    Isles of Romance. Connell C. 271.
    Most Dangerous Game. Connell C. 815. Prize F. 71. World. 226.
    Neighbors. Connell C. 139.
    Pieces of Silver. Connell C. 139.
    Second Egg. Connell C. 167.
    Six Reasons Why. Connell C. 309.
    Spring Flow’rets or Womanhood Eternal. Connell C. 61.
    Ssssssssshhhh! Connell C. 35.

  COOPER, JAMES FENIMORE. (1789–1851.) (_See 1923._)
    Whale. French K. 110.

  COTTON, JANE BALDWIN.
    Another Marriage of Convenience. Cotton. 35.
    Elizabethan Revival. Cotton. 71.
    End of the Feud. Cotton. 97.
    Wall-Eyed Caesar’s Ghost. Cotton. 1.

  CRAM, MILDRED R. (1889– .) (_See 1924._)
    Billy. O’Brien N. 19.

  CRANE, STEPHEN. (1870–1900.) (_See 1922._)
    Pace of Youth. Hastings. 176.

  CROWELL, CHESTER T. (1888– .)
    Margaret Blake. Prize F. 25.

  CURTIS, BRIAN C.
    Dinner Aboard the “Dog Star.” Copy B. 152.


                                   D

  “D., H.” (ALDINGTON, HILDA DOOLITTLE.)
    Hedylus. Contact. 91.

  DANA, RICHARD HENRY. (1787–1879.)
    Burial at Sea. French K. 271.

  DARGAN, OLIVE TILFORD.
    About Granpap and Trees. Dargan. 3.
    Coretta and Autumn. Dargan. 24.
    Evvie: Somewhat Married. Dargan. 107.
    My Wild-Hog Claim: A Dubious Asset. Dargan. 138
    Proper Funeral Dargan. 229.
    Sam. Dargan. 76.
    Serena and Wild Strawberries. Dargan. 54.
    Serena Takes a Boarder. Dargan. 180.

  DAY, HELEN J.
    City of Abandon. Humphrey A. 242.

  DAY, HOLMAN FRANCIS. (1865– .)
    Commander Jim Wickson’s “Habit.” Fox. 139.

  DE BRA, LEMUEL.
    Life--a Bowl of Rice. Rhys B. 95.

  DELL, FLOYD (1887– .) (_See 1924._)
    Phantom Adventure. O’Brien N. 39.

  DE LEON, WALTER.
    Boob, Humphrey A. 135.

  DERIEUX, SAMUEL ARTHUR. (1881–1922.) (_See 1924._)
    Wild Bill McCorkle. World. 152.

  DICKENSON, MAY FREUD.
    Mouse. Copy B. 1.

  DOBIE, CHARLES CALDWELL. (1881– .) (_See 1920._)
    Cracked Teapot. O’Brien N. 53.
    Hands of the Enemy. Harper. 84.
    Horse and Horse. Prize F. 93.
    Wild Geese. Harper. 218.

  DRAKE, CARLOS C. (1900– .)
    Last Dive. O’Brien N. 70.

  DREISER, THEODORE. (1871– .) (_See 1924._)
    Second Choice. Robinson. 116.

  DWIGHT, HARRY GRISWOLD. (1875– .) (_See 1920._)
    Mehmish. Hastings. 334.


                                   E

  EASTMAN, REBECCA HOOPER. (MRS. WILLIAM FRANKLIN EASTMAN.) (1877– .)
    Oldest Boarder. Humphrey A. 24.


                                   F

  FERBER, EDNA. (1887– .) (_See 1924._)
    Gay Old Dog. Robinson. 142.
    Old Man Minick. Aces. 50.

  FINGER, CHARLES J. (1871– .) (_See 1924._)
    Andrew Lang. Finger C. 187. O’Brien N. 74.
    Beresford of Ballarat. Finger C. 127.
    Captain Moonlight. Finger C. 85.
    Ned Kelly and Co. Finger C. 163.
    Popjoy. Finger C. 5.

  FITZGERALD, FRANCIS SCOTT KEY. (1896– .) (_See 1923._)
    Gretchen’s Forty Winks. Aces. 77.

  FREEMAN, LEWIS RANSOME. (1878– .)
    Firebrand. French K. 90.

  FREEMAN, MARY ELEANOR WILKINS. (1862– .) (_See 1924._)
    Village Singer. Hastings. 131.

  FROST, MEIGS OLIVER.
    Shackles of Service. World. 66.


                                   G

  GALE, ZONA. (1874– .) (_See 1923._)
    Biography of Blade. World. 173. O’Brien N. 95.
    Charity. Aces. 102.
    Happy New Year. Humphrey A. 268.
    Things They Saw. Fox. 75.
    Winter’s Tale. Aces B. 101.

  GEROULD, KATHARINE FULLERTON. (1879– .) (_See 1923._)
    Bird in the Bush. Robinson. 187.

  GERRY, MARGHERITA SPALDING. (1870– .) (_See 1920._)
    Light in Her Eyes. Fox. 274.

  GIBSON, MABEL.
    “And Friendless.” Humphrey A. 182.

  GILKYSON, PHOEBE H.
    Amateur. Harper. 274.

  GLASGOW, ELLEN ANDERSON GHOLSON. (1874– .) (_See 1923._)
    Romance and Sally Byrd. World. 91.

  GONZALES, AMBROSE E.
    After the Fruit the Flour. Gonzales A. 51.
    Bed and Board. Gonzales B. 243.
    “Caesar ... turned to Clay.” Gonzales B. 201.
    Captain. Gonzales A. 1.
    Clever Alice. Gonzales B. 53.
    Colony at the Ebb. Gonzales A. 265.
    Colony at the Flood. Gonzales A. 251.
    Critic on the Hearth. Gonzales B. 145.
    Crusader and the Cow. Gonzales B. 127.
    Daddy Bo’sun. Gonzales A. 81.
    Feud in Feathers. Gonzales B. 31.
    First Cabin Completed. Gonzales A. 219.
    Green Calabash. Gonzales A. 65.
    How the Devil Lost his Tail. Gonzales A. 367.
    Huntress and the Buck. Gonzales A. 299.
    Judgment of Solomon. Gonzales B. 279.
    Laguerre. Gonzales B. 1.
    Land in Sight. Gonzales A. 125.
    Land on Paper. Gonzales A. 141.
    Land Settled. Gonzales A. 235.
    Land Surveyed. Gonzales A. 155.
    Law and the Lady. Gonzales B. 223.
    “Man in the Case.” Gonzales B. 71.
    More Deadly Than the Male. Gonzales B. 43.
    On the Judgement Seat. Gonzales B. 11.
    Pa Jumbo at the Bar. Gonzales B. 21.
    “Place aux Dames!” Gonzales B. 107.
    Quest of the Land. Gonzales A. 111.
    Riever of the Black Border. Gonzales A. 17.
    River and the Sea. Gonzales A. 317.
    Road Called Straight. Gonzales B. 163.
    “Run, Niggah, Run!” Gonzales A. 33.
    Settling the Land. Gonzales A. 203.
    Sharpie and the “Trus’-Me-Gawd.” Gonzales A. 349.
    Survey Completed. Gonzales A. 187.
    Survey Continued. Gonzales A. 173.
    Taming of the Shrew. Gonzales B. 263.
    Tide Run Low. Gonzales A. 283.
    To Have and to Scold. Gonzales B. 181.
    Tragedy of the Marsh. Gonzales A. 301.
    Trencherman and the Shark. Gonzales A. 333.
    Trials of Tumbo. Gonzales B. 87.
    Under Dog. Gonzales A. 93.

  GREENWALD, TUPPER. (1902– .)
    Corputt. O’Brien N. 100.


                                   H

  HARRIS, ROBERT J. (1887– .)
    Two Walls. Humphrey A. 90.

  HART, FRANCES NOYES. (1890– .) (_See 1924._)
    American. Copy B. 200.

  HARTE, FRANCIS BRET. (1839–1902.) (_See 1924._)
    Outcasts of Poker Flat. Hastings. 48.

  HAWTHORNE, NATHANIEL. (1804–1864) (_See 1924._)
    Mr. Higginbotham’s Catastrophe. Hastings. 14.

  HAY, LILIAN R.
    Tanya. Humphrey A. 257.

  HEARN, LAFCADIO. (1850–1904) (_See 1921._)
    Boy Who Drew Cats. Hearn B. 29.
    Chin-Chin Kobakama. Hearn B. 9.
    Goblin-Spider. Hearn B. 18.
    Green Willow. Hearn B. 89.
    Hare of Inaba. Hearn B. 42.
    Matsuyama Mirror. Hearn B. 102.
    Momotaro. Hearn B. 126.
    My Lord Bag-o’-Rice. Hearn B. 47.
    Old Man and the Devils. Hearn B. 53.
    Old Woman Who Lost Her Dumpling. Hearn B. 21.
    Reflections. Hearn B. 110.
    Silly Jelly-Fish. Hearn B. 36.
    Tea-Kettle. Hearn B. 69.
    Tongue-Cut Sparrow. Hearn B. 57.
    Urashina. Hearn B. 80.
    Wooden Bowl. Hearn B. 60.

  HELLMAN, SAM.
    I am a Pirate King. Aces B. 136.

  HEMINGWAY, ERNEST. (_See 1924._)
    Battler. Hemingway B. 63.
    Big Two-Hearted River. Hemingway B. 177.
    Cat in the Rain. Hemingway B. 117.
    Cross Country Snow. Hemingway B. 139.
    Doctor and the Doctor’s Wife. Hemingway. B. 23.
    End of Something. Hemingway B. 33.
    Indian Camp. Hemingway B. 13.
    Mr. and Mrs. Elliot. Hemingway B. 107.
    My Old Man. Hemingway B. 151.
    Out of Season. Hemingway B. 125.
    Revolutionists. Hemingway B. 103.
    Soldier’s Home. Hemingway B. 87. Contact. 77.
    Three Day Blow. Hemingway B. 43.
    Very Short Story. Hemingway B. 81.

  “HENRY, O.” (WILLIAM SYDNEY PORTER.) (1862–1910.) (_See 1924._)
    Furnished Room. Hastings. 222.
    Snow Man. Fox. 19.
    Memoirs of a Yellow Dog. Gray. 121.

  HERGESHEIMER, JOSEPH. (1880– .) (_See 1923._)
    Bread. Robinson. 208.

  HERRICK, GERTRUDE.
    Shrines. Humphrey A. 55.

  HERRICK, ROBERT. (1868– .)
    Adventures of Ti Chatte. Herrick. 151.
    Magic. Herrick. 3.
    Passions of Trotsky. Herrick. 255.
    Stations of the Cross. Herrick. 71.

  HERRMAN, JOHN.
    Work in Progress. Contact. 114.

  HERVEY, HARRY. (1900– .)
    Young Men Go Down. O’Brien. N. 110.

  HESS, LEONARD L.
    Lesser Gift. Humphrey A. 116. O’Brien N. 119.

  HOUGH, EMERSON. (1857– .)
    Holy City Quartette. Fox. 64.

  HOWARD, SIDNEY.
    God They Left Behind Them. Howard. 237.
    Likeness of Elizabeth. Howard. 1.
    Mrs. Veitch. Howard. 139.
    Transatlantic. Howard. 79.

  HUGHES, RUPERT. (1872– .) (_See 1923._)
    Grudges. O’Brien. N. 137.

  HULL, ALEXANDER. (1887– .)
    Justice in the Painted Hills. Gray. 97.

  HUMMEL, GEORGE F.
    Abigail Foster’s Rebellion. Hummel. 231.
    Apotheosis of Auzy Ward. Hummel. 13.
    Coming of Electricity to Ollie Ben. Hummel. 171.
    Donkey Ditch. Hummel. 197.
    Fall Flight. Hummel. 63.
    June Roses. Hummel. 297.
    Katy Catt. Hummel. 271.
    Ring Around the Rosie. Hummel. 95.
    Tilly May’s Revenge. Hummel. 31.
    Victory to the Strong. Hummel. 127.

  HURST, FANNIE. (1889– .) (_See 1924._)
    Gold in Fish. Aces B. 157.
    Good Provider. Robinson. 239.


                                   I

  IRWIN, INEZ HAYNES. (1873– .)
    Spring Flight. Prize F. 1. World 249.


                                   J

  JAMES, HENRY. (1843–1916.) (_See 1924._)
    Private Life. Newman. 174.
    Visits. Hastings. 159.

  JEWETT, SARAH ORNE. (1849–1909.) (_See 1923._)
    Along Shore. Jewett. 1:184.
    At the Schoolhouse Window. Jewett. 1:15.
    Aunt Cynthy Dallett. Jewett. 2:279.
    Backwood View. Jewett. 1:300.
    Bowden Reunion. Jewett. 1:156.
    Captain Littlepage. Jewett. 1:20.
    Country Road. Jewett. 1:144.
    Dulham Ladies. Jewett. 2:64.
    Dunnet Shepherdess. Jewett. 1:207.
    Feast’s End. Jewett. 1:175.
    Flight of Betsy Lane. Jewett. 2:22.
    Going to Shrewsbury. Jewett. 2:90.
    Great Expedition. Jewett. 1:134.
    Green Island. Jewett. 1:48.
    Hermitage. Jewett. 1:115.
    Hilton’s Holiday. Jewett. 2:248.
    Martha’s Lady. Jewett. 2:158.
    Miss Tempy’s Watchers. Jewett. 2:137.
    Mrs. Todd. Jewett. 1:3.
    Old Singers. Jewett. 1:80.
    Only Rose. Jewett. 2:109.
    On Shell-Heap Island. Jewett. 1:127.
    Outer Island. Jewett. 1:42.
    Poor Joanna. Jewett. 1:98.
    Queen’s Twin. Jewett. 1:242.
    Quest of Mrs. Timms. Jewett. 2:193.
    Return. Jewett. 1:1.
    Schoolhouse. Jewett. 1:11.
    Strange Sail. Jewett. 1:86.
    Town Poor. Jewett. 2:224.
    Waiting Place. Jewett. 1:31.
    Where Pennyroyal Grew. Jewett. 1:72.
    White Heron. Jewett. 2:1.
    William. Jewett. 1:66.
    William’s Wedding. Jewett. 1:279.


                                   K

  KIRK, R. G.
    White Monarch and the Gas-House Pup. Gray. 291.

  KOMROFF, MANUEL. (1890– .) (_See 1924._)
    Beating of the Reed. Komroff. 101.
    Burning Beard. Komroff. 55.
    Dark Cloak. Komroff. 69.
    En Route. Komroff. 177.
    Grace of Lambs. Komroff. 13.
    How Does It Feel to be Free? Komroff. 200.
    In a Russian Tea-House. Komroff. 187.
    Lady Lotto. Komroff. 163.
    Little Master of the Sky. Komroff. 29.
    Moscow Rehearsal. Komroff. 139.
    Political Horse. Komroff. 199.
    Thumbs. Komroff. 117.
    Union of Beggars. Komroff. 89.
    Wedding Feast. Komroff. 149.

  KYLE, ANNE D.
    Easter Lambs. Copy B. 168.


                                   L

  LARDNER, RING W. (1885– .) (_See 1924._)
    Katie Wins a Home. Robinson. 280.

  LEACH, A. R.
    Captain Out of Etruria. Harper. 300.

  LEON, WALTER DE. _See_ DE LEON, WALTER.

  “LESSING, BRUNO.” (RUDOLPH BLOCK.) (_1870_– .)
    Love and Cloaks and Suits. Aces. 123.

  LEWIS, ALFRED HENRY. (1857–1914.)
    Tucson Jennie’s Jealousy. Hastings. 201.

  LYNDE, FRANCIS. (1856– .)
    Pied Piper of One-Track Gulch. Fox. 236.

  LYON, HARRIS MERTON. (1883–1916.) (_See 1920._)
    John Jones Comes to Life. Fox. 216.


                                   M

  MACY, W. H.
    Last Whale. French K. 302.

  MARQUIS, DON. (1878– .) (_See 1921._)
    Being a Public Character. Gray. 21.

  MARSHALL, EDISON. (1894– .) (_See 1922._)
    Shag of the Packs. Gray. 185.

  MELVILLE, HERMAN. (1819–1891.) (_See 1923._)
    Cape Horn. French K. 318.

  MERWIN, SAMUEL. (1874– .)
    More Stately Mansions. World. 375.

  MILHAM, CHARLES GILBERT. (1883– .)
    His Doctor. Humphrey A. 170.

  MIRRIELEES, EDITH RONALD.
    Professor Boynton Rereads History. Prize F. 113.

  MORRIS, GOUVERNEUR. (1876– .) (_See 1924._)
    Holding Hands. Fox. 89.
    Postscript to Divorce. O’Brien N. 155.

  MORROW, HONORE MCCUE WILLSIE.
    Fighting Blood. World. 312.

  MOSLEY, JEFFERSON.
    Secret at the Crossroads. Prize F. 126.


                                   N

  NAYLOR, CHARLES J.
    Five-Thirty. Copy B. 97.

  NEWMAN, FRANCES.
    Rachel and Her Children. Prize F. 45.

  NORRIS, KATHLEEN. (1880– .)
    Masterpiece. Aces B. 265.
    Unbecoming Conduct of Annie. Aces. 138.


                                   O

  “OXFORD, JOHN BARTON.” (RICHARD BARKER SHELTON.)
    Angie. Humphrey A. 100.

  O’SHAUGHNESSY, EDITH.
    Arthur Albion Street’s Illness. O’Shaughnessy. 167.
    Mr. Bishop. O’Shaughnessy. 183.
    Mr. Crane’s Last Wife. O’Shaughnessy. 3.
    Seeing Edward Again. O’Shaughnessy. 139.
    Souls in Intaglio. O’Shaughnessy. 225.
    You Never Can Tell. O’Shaughnessy. 101.


                                   P

  PARADISE, VIOLA L.
    Calabrian Goes Home. Humphrey A. 194.

  PATTULLO, GEORGE. (1879– .)
    Tie that Binds. Prize F. 142.

  PETERKIN, JULIA M.
    Ashes. Peterkin. 9.
    Cat Fish. Peterkin. 123.
    Finding Peace. Peterkin. 94.
    Green Thursday. Peterkin. 26.
    Meeting. Peterkin. 62.
    Missie. Peterkin. 50.
    Mount Pleasant. Peterkin. 79.
    Plum Blossoms. Peterkin. 170.
    Red Rooster. Peterkin. 103.
    Son. Peterkin. 132.
    Sunday. Peterkin. 143.
    Teaching Jim. Peterkin. 115.

  POE, EDGAR ALLAN. (1809–1849.) (_See 1924._)
    Fall of the House of Usher. Lynch. 264.
    Masque of the Red Death. Hastings. 27.

  POOLE, ERNEST. (1880– .)
    Salvatore Schreider. Fox. 37.
    Dormeuse. Poole B. 9.
    Little Dark Man. Poole B. 41.
    Mother Volga. Poole B. 103.
    Stories that His Uncle Told. Poole B. 65.

  PRICE, EDITH BALLINGER. (1897– .)
    Boy from Beyant. Humphrey A. 67.


                                   R

  READ, FRANCES KAUTZ.
    Engagement on the Rhine. Copy B. 113.

  REESE, LIZETTE WOODWORTH. (1856– .)
    Forgiveness. O’Brien N. 167.

  RICE, ALICE CALDWELL (HEGAN). (MRS. CALE YOUNG RICE.) (1870– .)
    Between Trains. Rice 185.
    Day of Resurrection. Rice. 237.
    Miss Gee. Rice. 61.
    Mourning a la Mode. Rice. 133.
    Phoebe. Rice. 3.

  RICE, CALE YOUNG. (1872– .)
    Commonwealth’s Attorney. Rice. 103.
    Environment. Rice. 157.
    Gull’s Nest. Rice. 271.
    Heroes: Two Storiettes. Rice. 209.
    Out of Darkness. Rice. 33.

  RINEHART, MARY ROBERTS. (1876– .)
    Twenty-Two. Aces. 164.

  ROBERTSON, MORGAN. (1861–1915.)
      Argonauts. Fox. 50.

  RUNYON, ALFRED DAMON. (1840– .)
    Breeze Kid’s Big Tear-Off. Fox. 111.


                                   S

  SERGEL, ROGER L. (1894– .)
    Nocturne: A Red Shawl. O’Brien N. 175.

  SHELTON, RICHARD BARKER. _See_ “OXFORD, JOHN BARTON.”

  SHER, BENJAMIN R.
    Abe’s Card. Aces. 224.
    Rubber Heels. Aces B. 308.

  SHIFFRIN, A. B. (1902– .)
    Black Laugh. O’Brien N. 191.

  SINGMASTER, ELSIE. (ELSIE SINGMASTER LEWARS.) (1879– .) (_See 1920._)
    Courier of the Czar. Prize F. 155.
    November the Nineteenth. World. 331.
    Pair of Lovers. Gray. 155.

  SMITH, EDGAR VALENTINE. (1875– .) (_See 1924._)
    ’Lijah. Prize F. 172.

  SPEARS, RAYMOND SMILEY. (1850– .)
    River Combine--Professional. Prize F. 190.

  SPRINGER, FLETA CAMPBELL.
    Legend. Harper. 108.

  SQUIER, EMMA-LINDSAY. (MRS. GEORGE LLOYD MARK.) (1893– .)
    Flower of Gold. Humphrey A. 37.
    Soul of Caliban. Gray. 241.

  STEELE, WILBUR DANIEL. (1886– .) (_See 1923._)
    Woman at Seven Brothers. Robinson. 382.
    What Do You Mean--Americans? Prize F. 205.
    When Hell Froze. Harper. 241.

  STEIN, GERTRUDE.
    Two Women. Contact. 303.

  STOCKTON, FRANK RICHARD. (1834–1902.) (_See 1924._)
    Widow’s Cruise. Hastings. 187.

  STONE, ELINORE COWAN.
    One Uses the Handkerchief. Prize F. 225.

  STREET, JULIAN LEONARD. (1879– .) (_See 1923._)
    Mr. Bisbee’s Princess. Street B. 1.
    Speaking Likeness. Street B. 85.
    Syringas. Street B. 159.

  SUCKOW, RUTH. (1892– .) (_See. 1924._)
    Four Generations. O’Brien N. 198.

  SWIFT, HELEN. (_See 1924._)
    Chicken-Woman and the Hen-Man. Freeman. 273.
    Zachariah Jones. Freeman. 277.


                                   T

  TARKINGTON, NEWTON BOOTH. (1869– .) (_See 1924._)
    Big, Fat Lummox. Robinson. 406.
    Fox Terrier or Something. Gray. 59.

  TARLEAU, LISA YSAYE.
    Loutré. World. 178. Harper 1.

  TERHUNE, ALBERT PAYSON. (1872– .) (_See 1923._)
    Grudge. Gray. 65.

  THOMPSON, MARY WOLFE. (_See 1924._)
    Turtle. Copy B. 182.

  TRAIN, ARTHUR CHENEY. (1875– .)
    Old Duke. Gray. 129.

  TUTTLE, WORTH. (_See 1923._)
    Tree in the Forest. Copy B. 75.


                                   V

  VAN DEN BARK, MELVIN. (1897– .)
    Two Women and Hog-Back Ridge. O Brien N. 211.

  VAN DINE, WARREN L. (1902– .)
    Poet. O’Brien N. 228.

  VAN DYKE, HENRY. (1852– .) (_See 1920._)
    Beggars Under the Bush. Van Dyke B. 91.
    Change of Air. Van Dyke B. 84.
    Hero and Tin Soldiers. Van Dyke B. 145.
    In the Odor of Sanctity. Van Dyke B. 120.
    Jericho Road. Van Dyke B. 31.
    Key of the Tower. Van Dyke B. 59.
    King’s Jewel. Van Dyke B. 64.
    Man Praying. Van Dyke B. 43.
    Old Game. Van Dyke B. 78.
    Parable of Wedlock. Van Dyke B. 20.
    Primitive and His Sandals. Van Dyke B. 137.
    Return of the Charm. Van Dyke B. 109.
    Ripening of the Fruit. Van Dyke B. 71.
    Stronghold. Van Dyke B. 98.
    Tale of a Habitation Forfeited. Van Dyke B. 16.
    Tale of Friends. Van Dyke B. 57.
    Tale of Learning by Experience. Van Dyke B. 25.
    Tale of Man and the Machine. Van Dyke B. 55.
    Tale of Peace. Van Dyke B. 54.
    Tale of Travel. Van Dyke B. 3.
    Tale of the Cursing of Capital. Van Dyke B. 9.
    Tale of the Embankment. Van Dyke B. 26.
    Tale of the Hitching-Post. Van Dyke B. 37.
    Tale of the Jewels. Van Dyke B. 11.
    Tale of the Only Infallible Soap. Van Dyke B. 40.
    Tale of the Philosophic Husband. Van Dyke B. 52.
    Tale of the Prisoner. Van Dyke B. 50.
    Tale of the Shaky Bridge. Van Dyke B. 46.
    Tale of the Two Runners. Van Dyke B. 6.
    Tale of the Two Wolves. Van Dyke B 28.


                                   W

  WARREN, HAMILTON M.
    Faithful Image. Copy B. 134.

  WATSON, MARION ELIZABETH.
    Bottle-Stoppers. Copy B. 44.

  WEIMAN, RITA. (1889– .)
    Stage Door. Aces. B. 324.

  WELLES, HARRIET OGDEN DEEN. (_See 1924._)
    Progress. Prize F. 238.

  WESCOTT, GLENWAY. (1901– .)
    In a Thicket. O’Brien. N. 240.

  WHARTON, EDITH NEWBOLD JONES (1862– .) (_See 1924._)
    Kerfol. Rhys B. 1.
    Verdict. Hastings. 261.
    Xingu. Robinson. 467.

  WILLIAMS, HENRY MEADE.
    Tides. Humphrey A. 163.

  WINSLOW, THYRA SAMTER. (1889– .) (_See 1923._)
    Her Own Room. Aces B. 354.
    Love Affair. Aces. 260.

  WOOD, FRANCES GILCHRIST. (_See 1924._)
    Shoes. Copy B. 14. O’Brien N. 248.

  WOODROW, NANCY MANN WADDELL. (MRS. WILSON WOODROW.)
    New Earth. Fox. 182.


                      II. BRITISH AND IRISH AUTHORS

                                   A

  ALLISON, JAMES MURRAY.
    Mr. Franklin’s Adventure. O’Brien L. 3.

  “ARLEN, MICHAEL.” (DIKRAN KUYUMJIAN.) (_See 1924._)
    Ace of Cads. Arlen C. 59.
    Battle of Berkeley Square. Arlen C. 116.
    Dancer of Paris. World. 130.
    Farewell, These Charming People. Arlen C. 327.
    Gentleman from America. Arlen C. 224.
    Ghoul of Golder’s Green. Arlen C. 276.
    To Lamoir. Arlen C. 251.
    Prince of the Jews. Arlen C. 133.
    Revolting Doom of a Gentleman Who Would not Dance with His Wife.
        Arlen C. 202.
    Romance in Old Brandy. Arlen C. 36.
    Shameless Behavior of a Lord. Georgian C. 3.
    Three-Cornered Moon. Arlen C. 166.
    Where the Pigeons Go to Die. Arlen C. 95.

  ARMSTRONG, MARTIN. (1882– .) (_See 1924._)
    Materialist. Georgian C. 12.
    Mrs. Lovelace. O’Brien L. 12.

  AUMONIER, STACY. (1887– .) (_See 1924._)
    Dark Corridor. Aumonier C. 45.
    Dark Red Roses. Aumonier C. 241.
    Fall. Aumonier C. 9.
    Freddie Finds Himself. Aumonier C. 275.
    Friends. Aumonier C. 89.
    Kidnapped “General.” Aumonier C. 71.
    Little Window of the Night. Aumonier C. 257.
    Mother of Carmen Colignon. Aumonier C. 215.
    One Sunday Morning. Aumonier C. 33.
    One Thing Leads to Another. Aumonier C. 197.
    Overheard. Aumonier C. 1.
    Persistent Mother. Aumonier C. 119.
    What _Was_ She to Think? Aumonier C. 185.
    When the Earth Stopped. Aumonier C. 141.
    William’s Narrow Squeak. Aumonier C. 161.

  AUSTIN, FREDERICK BRITTEN. (1885– .) (_See 1923._)
    Affair of Honour. Austin B. 146.
    Drum. Austin B. 75.
    Infernal Machine. Austin B. 47.
    Mother Sits by the Fire. Austin B. 25.
    Nach Verdun! Austin B. 231.
    One Beloved. Austin B. (121.)
    Panzerkraftwagen! Austin B. 97.
    Problem in Reprisals. Austin B. 289.
    Red Shawl. Austin B. 258.
    She Who Came Back. Austin B. 317.
    “S. O. S.” Austin B. 206.
    Through the Gate of Horn. Austin B. 178.
    Under the Lens. Austin B. 1.


                                   B

  BARING, MAURICE. (1874– .)
    Shadow of a Midnight. Lynch. 31.

  BECKE, LOUIS. (_See 1924._)
    Black Bream of Australia. Becke C. 96.
    Colonial Mortuary Bard. Becke C. 83.
    Fish Drugging in the Pacific. Becke C. 203.
    “Five-Head Creek.” Becke C. 181.
    John Corwell, Sailor and Miner. Becke C. 218.
    “Martin of Nitendi.” Becke C. 110.
    “Old Mary.” Becke C. 144.
    Poisonous Fish of the Pacific Islands. Becke C. 246.
    “Reo,” the Fisherman. Becke C. 88.
    River of Dreams. Becke C. 122.
    Yorke the Adventurer. Becke C. 7.

  BENNETT, ENOCH ARNOLD. (1867– .)
    Box-Office Girl. Bennett. 111.
    During Dinner. Bennett. 73.
    Elsie and the Child. Bennett. 9.
    Fish. Bennett, 294.
    Idiot. Robinson. 18.
    Last Love. Bennett. 219.
    Limits of Dominion. Bennett. 321.
    Mr. Jack Hollins Against Fate. Bennett. 132.
    Mysterious Destruction of Mr. Ipple. Bennett. 243.
    Nine O’Clock To-Morrow. Bennett. 157.
    Outside and Inside. Bennett. 201.
    Paper Cap. Bennett. 91.
    Perfect Creature. Bennett. 268.
    Yacht. Bennett. 179.

  BENNETT, ROLF.
    Bill Grimes His Soul. O’Brien L. 21.

  BENSON, EDWARD FREDERIC. (1867– .) (_See 1920._)
    Thing in the Hall. Fox. 154. Lynch. 10.

  BERESFORD, JOHN DAVYS. (1875– .) (_See 1924._)
    That Sort of Thing. New Dec. D. 78.

  BIBESCO, PRINCESS ELIZABETH. (_See 1923._)
    Red Hair. O’Brien M. 3.

  BLACKWOOD, ALGERNON. (1869– .) (_See 1924._)
    Willows. Lynch. 29.
    Violence. Rhys B. 253.

  “BLAIR.”
    Altars. New Dec. D. 112.
    Dame aux Jarretières. New Dec. D. 262.

  BRAMAH, ERNEST. (_See 1924._)
    Bobbie and Poetic Justice. Bramah B. 215.
    Bunch of Violets. Bramah B. 68.
    Dead March. Bramah B. 53.
    Delicate Case of Mlle. Celestine Bon. Bramah B. 45.
    “Dragan” of Swafton. Bramah B. 290.
    Dream of William Ellgood. Bramah B. 298.
    Fate and a Family Council. Bramah B. 116.
    From a London Balcony. Bramah B. 310.
    Goose and the Golden Egg. Bramah B. 186.
    Great Hockington Find. Bramah B. 158.
    Hautepierre’s Star. Bramah B. 176.
    Heart of the Pagan. Bramah B. 237.
    Lucretia and the Horse-Doctor. Bramah B. 129.
    Marquise Ring. Bramah B. 278.
    Making of Marianna. Bramah B. 198.
    Ming Tsenen and the Emergency. Bramah B. 23.
    Once in a Blue Moon. Bramah B. 259.
    Revolution. Bramah B. 97.
    Smothered in Corpses. Bramah B. 103.
    War Hawks. Bramah B. 139.
    Very Black Business. Bramah B. 61.

  “BRYHER.” _See_ MCALMON, WINIFRED.

  BURKE, THOMAS. (1887– .) (_See 1921._)
    Chink and the Child. Rhys B. 32.
    Sign of the Lamp. Robinson. 18.

  BUTTS, MARY. (1891– .) (_See 1924._)
    Deosil. O’Brien L. 27.
    Friendship’s Garland. Contact. 30.


                                   C

  CAINE, WILLIAM. (1872– .) (_See 1923._)
    Three Kings. Hastings. 351.

  “CONRAD, JOSEPH.” (JOSEPH CONRAD KORZENIOWSKI.) (1857–1924.) (_See
        1924._)
    Black Mate. Conrad B. 85.
    Conte. Fox. 1.
    Lagoon. Robinson. 99.
    Prince Roman. Conrad B. 29.
    Secret Sharer. Hastings. 279.
    Tale Conrad B. 59.
    Warrior’s Soul. Conrad B. 1.

  COPPARD, ALFRED EDGAR. (1878– .) (_See 1924._)
    Alice Brady. Coppard C. 145.
    At Laban’s Well. Coppard C. 175.
    Diversion with Thomas. Coppard C. 295.
    Dumbledon Donkey. Coppard C. 217.
    Fifty Pounds. O’Brien M. 20.
    Fishmonger’s Fiddle. Coppard C. 260.
    Higgler. Coppard C. 73. O’Brien L. 38.
    Italian Whirligig. Coppard C. 114.
    Jewel of Jeopardy. Coppard C. 121.
    Little Boy Lost. Coppard C. 284.
    Little Mistress. Coppard C. 32.
    Mr. Lightfoot in the Green Isle. Coppard C. 303.
    Old Martin. Coppard C. 9.
    Snare. Coppard C. 252.
    Three-Handed Reel. Coppard C. 225.
    Watercress Girl. Coppard C. 155.
    Wildgoose Chase. Coppard C. 181.
    Willie Waugh. Coppard C. 64.

  CORVO, FREDERICK, BARON.
    About a Vegetable Purgatory. Corvo. 323.
    About Beata Beatrice and the Mamma of Sampietro. Corvo. 378.
    About Divin Amore and the Maiden Anima. Corvo. 130.
    About Doing Little, Lavishly. Corvo. 145.
    About Doubles in General: and San-benanzio and Santagapito in
        Particular. Corvo. 168.
    About One Way in Which Christians Love One Another. Corvo. 409.
    About Our Lady of Dreams. Corvo. 273.
    About Papa Ferretti and the Blest Heresiarch. Corvo. 119.
    About Sampietro and Sampaolo. Corvo. 347.
    About Sodom and Gomorrah and the Two Admirable Jesuits. Corvo. 97.
    About Some Friends. Corvo. 228.
    About Some Kings. Corvo. 112.
    About the Aforesaid, and Padre Dotto Vagheggino, S. J. Corvo. 187.
    About the Check of Fra Sebastiano of the Cappuccini. Corvo. 15.
    About the Fantastical Fra Guilhelmo of the Cappuccini. Corvo. 3.
    About the Four Things Necessary. Corvo. 295.
    About the Heresy of Fra Serafino. Corvo. 391.
    About the Holy Duchess and the Wicked King. Corvo. 12.
    About the Insistence of Sangiuseppe. Corvo. 311.
    About the Love Which Is Desire and the Love Which Is Divine. Corvo.
        122.
    About the Miraculous Fritter of Frat’ Agostino of the Cappuccini.
        Corvo. 19.
    About the Original Fritter of San Giuseppe. Corvo. 26.
    About the Penance of Paisalettrio. Corvo. 252.
    About the Preface of Fra Cherubino. Corvo. 303.
    About These Tales, the Key, and Purgatory. Corvo. 207.
    About the Witch’s Head and Santignazio of Loyola. Corvo. 82.
    About What Is Due to Contrition. Corvo. 336.
    Being an Epic of Sangiorgio, Protector of the Kingdom. Corvo. 35.
    Caprice of Some Cherubim. Corvo. 368.
    Why Cats and Dogs always Litigate. Corvo. 125.
    Why the Rose is Red. Corvo. 66.

  CURZON OF KEDLESTON, MARQUESS.
    Drums of Kairwan. Rhys B. 84.


                                   D

  DEFOE, DANIEL. (1660?–1731.) (_See 1924._)
    Remarkable Passage of an Apparition. Hastings. 4.

  “DELAFIELD, E. M.” (EDMEE ELIZABETH MONICA DE LA PASTURE DASHWOOD.)
    Appeal. O’Brien L. 67.

  DE LA MARE, WALTER JOHN. (1873– .) (_See 1924._)
    Creatures. Rhys B. 326.

  DOYLE, SIR ARTHUR CONAN. (1859– .) (_See 1924._)
    Captain Sharkey. Rhys B. 236.

  “DOYLE, LYNN.” (LESLIE ALEXANDER MONTGOMERY.) (1873– .)
    Rapparee. O’Brien M. 279.

  DUNSANY, EDWARD JOHN MORETON DRAY PLUNKETT, EIGHTEENTH BARON. (1878–
        .) (_See 1924._)
    Highwayman Hastings. 272.


                                   E

  EVANS, CARADOC. (_See 1920._)
    Coffin. O’Brien L. 75.


                                   F

  FARJEON, ELEANOR.
    Faithful Jenny Dove. O’Brien M. 36.

  FORSTER, EDWARD MORGAN. (1879– .) (_See 1923._)
    Story of the Siren. Georgian C. 18.


                                   G

  GALSWORTHY, JOHN. (1867– .) (_See 1924._)
    Acme. Galsworthy D. 425.
    Apple Tree. Galsworthy D. 333.
    Black Godmother. Galsworthy D. 269.
    Blackmail. Galsworthy D. 837.
    Bright Side. Galsworthy D. 247.
    Broken Bott. Galsworthy D. 207.
    Cafard. Galsworthy D. 793.
    Choice. Galsworthy D. 213.
    Compensation. Galsworthy D. 809.
    Conscience. Galsworthy D. 817.
    Consummation. Galsworthy D. 417.
    Courage. Galsworthy D. 239.
    Dead Man. Hastings. 331.
    Defeat. Robinson. 170. Galsworthy D. 433.
    “Dog it Was That Died.” Galsworthy D. 505.
    Expectations. Galsworthy D. 647.
    Feud. Galsworthy D. 731.
    First and the Last. Galsworthy D. 863.
    Fisher of Men. Galsworthy D. 769.
    Grey Angel. Galsworthy D. 165.
    Had a Horse. Galsworthy D. 923.
    Hedonist. Galsworthy D. 663.
    Japanese Quince. Galsworthy D. 663.
    Juryman. Galsworthy D. 559.
    Knight. Galsworthy D. 521.
    Late--299. Galsworthy D. 681.
    Long-Ago Affair. Galsworthy D. 857.
    Man of Devon. Galsworthy D. 281.
    Man Who Kept His Form. Galsworthy D. 187.
    Manna. Galsworthy D. 781.
    Miller of Dee. Galsworthy D. 673.
    Mother Stone. Galsworthy D. 609.
    Neighbours. Galsworthy D. 459.
    Nightmare Child. Galsworthy D. 631.
    Once More. Galsworthy D. 827.
    Pack. Galsworthy D. 499.
    Peace Meeting. Galsworthy D. 613.
    Philanthropy. Galsworthy D. 275.
    Portrait. Galsworthy D. 147.
    Prisoner. Galsworthy D. 399.
    Quality. Galsworthy D. 179.
    Recruit. Galsworthy D. 801.
    Reversion to Type. Galsworthy D. 641.
    Salta pro Nobis. Galsworthy D. 493.
    Salvation of a Forsyte. Galsworthy D. 1.
    Santa Lucia. Galsworthy D. 595.
    Silence. Galsworthy D. 705.
    Simple Tale. Galsworthy D. 407. Aces B. 125.
    Spindleberries. Galsworthy D. 481.
    Stoic. Galsworthy D. 45.
    Strange Thing. Galsworthy D. 621.
    Stroke of Lightning. Galsworthy D. 467.
    Timber. Galsworthy D. 583.
    Two Looks. Galsworthy D. 851.
    Ultima Thule. Galsworthy D. 221.
    Virtue. Galsworthy D. 449.
    Woman. Galsworthy D. 657.

  GARVIN, VIOLA.
    Miss Wickers. O’Brien M. 52.

  GASKELL, ELIZABETH CLEGHORN. (1810–1865.)
    Old Nurse’s Story. Lynch. 107.

  GOLDING, LOUIS. (1895– .)
    Call of the Hand. Rhys B. 210.

  GRANT WATSON, E. L. (_See 1924._)
    Black Wedgewood. Watson. 163.
    Boy and Girl. Watson. 129.
    Case of Sir Reginald James Farquharson. Watson. 43.
    Cave of Colycus. Watson. 93.
    Diamond. Watson. 141. O’Brien M. 219.
    Farewell. Watson. 217.
    Friend and Neighbor. Watson. 247.
    Gnilgie. Watson. 205.
    Last Straw. Watson. 227.
    Man and Brute. Watson. 69.
    Mediator. Watson. 117.
    Out There. Watson. 11.
    Raison d’Etre. Watson. 191.
    White and Yellow. Watson. 175.


                                   H

  HARTLEY, L. P.
    Apples. Hartley. 207.
    Beautiful Character. Hartley. 109.
    Condition of Release. Hartley. 153.
    Friends of the Bridegroom. Hartley. 83.
    Island. Hartley. 1. Georgian C. 28.
    Last Time. Hartley. 213.
    Night Fears. Hartley. 37. O’Brien L. 81.
    New Prime Minister. Hartley 139.
    Portrait. Hartley. 89.
    St. George and the Dragon. Hartley 59.
    Sentimental Journey. Hartley. 103.
    Summons. Hartley. 123.
    Talent. Hartley. 31.
    Telephone Call. Hartley. 49.
    Tonic. Hartley. 165.
    Visit to the Dentist. Hartley. 129.
    Witheling End. Hartley. 179.

  HARWOOD, H. C.
    Adversity. Harwood. 210.
    Easy Tavern. Harwood. 270.
    Ernest. Harwood. 9.
    House Proud. Harwood. 81.
    John Meadowes. Harwood. 137.
    Judgement Joe. Harwood. 279.
    Legend of the Green Lady. Harwood. 162.
    1919. Harwood. 191.
    Quemby Pembé. Harwood. 89.
    Secret Valley. Harwood. 47.
    Seven Devils. Harwood. 242.
    Wandering Jew. Harwood. 108.

  HICHENS, ROBERT SMYTHE. (1864– .)
    Nomad. Rhys B. 48.

  HORSNELL, HORACE.
    Water Sprite. New Dec. D. 195.

  HUGHES, RICHARD. (_See 1923._)
    Ghost. Georgian C. 48.
    Poor Man’s Inn. O’Brien M. 77.

  HUXLEY, ALDOUS LEONARD. (_See 1924._)
    Little Mexican. Georgian C. 53.

  HYNE, CHARLES JOHN CUTCLIFFE WRIGHT. (1866– .)
    Ransom. Rhys B. 161.


                                   J

  JACOBS, WILLIAM WYMARK. (1863– .) (_See 1924._)
    Monkey’s Paw. Rhys B. 311.
    Question of Habit. Hastings. 212.

  JAMES, MONTAGUE RHODES. (1862– .) (_See 1921._)
    Mezzotint. Hastings. 229.
    Tractate Middoth. Lynch. 142.

  JAMESON, MARGARET STORM. (_See 1923._)
    Monotony. New Dec. D. 178.

  JESSE, FRYNIWYD TENNYSON. (MRS. H. M. HARWOOD.) (_See 1924._)
    Baker’s Fury. Georgian C. 89.

  JOYCE, JAMES. (1882– .)
    Arabie. Hastings. 344.
    Ivy Day in the Committee Room. Newman. 283.


                                   K

  KAYE-SMITH, SHEILA. (_See 1923._)
    Mockbeggar. Hastings. 371.

  KEABLE, ROBERT. (_See 1923._)
    Late Extra. New Dec. D. 215.

  KINGSMILL, HUGH.
    “W. J.” Georgian C. 111.

  KIPLING, RUDYARD. (1865– .) (_See 1924._)
    False Dawn. Hastings. 112.


                                   L

  LANDON, PERCEVAL. (1869– .)
    Thurnley Abbey. Lynch. 169.

  LAVRIN, JANKO.
    Old Story. O’Brien L. 88.

  LAWRENCE, DAVID HERBERT. (1885– .) (_See 1924._)
    Jimmy and the Desperate Woman. O’Brien M. 88.
    Last Laugh. New Dec. D. 235.
    St. Mawr. Lawrence C. 1.
    Shades of Spring. Newman. 262.
    Rex. Gray. 171.

  LYNCH, ARTHUR.
    Sentimental Mortgage. Rhys B. 229.

  LYND, SYLVIA.
    Adversaries. Lynd B. 209.
    Conversation in War-Time. Lynd B. 257.
    Day in Town. Lynd B. 127.
    Eat, Drink, and Be Merry. Lynd B. 43.
    Exile. Lynd B. 15.
    Fish Face. Lynd B. 107.
    Getting the Sack. Lynd B. 245.
    Gooseberry. Lynd B. 73.
    Guilty Passion. Lynd B. 87.
    Intruder. Lynd B. 223.
    Journey’s End. Lynd B. 113.
    Mulberry Bush. Lynd B. 3.
    Night and Morning. Lynd B. 267.
    Out of the Wind. Lynd B. 167.
    Romaunt de la Rose. Lynd B. 153.
    Sixth Act. Lynd B. 97.
    Story for Ornithologists. Lynd B. 193.
    Sybarite. Lynd B. 141.
    Tact. Lynd B. 179.
    Two Old Bachelors. Lynd B. 61.
    Vengeance. Lynd B. 53.
    Worth the Money. Lynd B. 235.


                                   M

  MCALMON, WINIFRED. (“BRYHER.”)
    South. Contact. 11.

  MACARDLE, DOROTHY.
    Brother. MacArdle. 34.
    By God’s Mercy. MacArdle. 80.
    De Profundis. MacArdle. 72.
    Earth-Bound. MacArdle. 7.
    Prisoner. MacArdle. 46.
    Portrait of Roisin Dhu. MacArdle. 90.
    Return of Niav. MacArdle. 56.
    Samhain. MacArdle. 20. O’Brien M. 286.
    Story Without an End. MacArdle. 102.

  MCFEE, WILLIAM. (1881– .)
    Deckers on the Coast. O’Brien L. 93.

  MACHEN, ARTHUR. (1863– .) (_See 1922._)
    Education and the Uneducated. Machen B. 177.
    Happy Children. Machen. B. 63.
    In Convertendo. Machen B. 155.
    Martyr. Machen B. 165.
    Mystic Speech. Machen B. 129.
    Out of the Earth. Machen B. 49.
    Secret of the Sangreal. Machen B. 83.
    Shining Pyramid. Machen B. 13.

  MACKENZIE, G. H. (_See 1924._)
    Lion’s Courage. O’Brien L. 109.

  MACNICHOL, KENNETH.
    Redemption of Madame Fradeau. O’Brien M. 115.

  MANNING-SAUNDERS, GEORGE.
    Fox, O’Brien M. 134.

  MANSFIELD, KATHERINE. (KATHLEEN BEAUCHAMP MURRY.) (1890–1923.) (_See
        1923._)
    Bains Turcs. Mansfield D. 114.
    Black Cap. Mansfield D. 189.
    Carnation. Mansfield D. 204.
    Daughters of the Late Colonel. Robinson. 305.
    How Pearl Button Was Kidnapped. Mansfield D. 10.
    Indiscreet Journey. Mansfield D. 152.
    Journey to Bruges. Mansfield D. 17.
    Late at Night. Mansfield D. 180.
    Little Girl. Mansfield D. 79.
    Millie. Mansfield D. 86.
    New Dresses. Mansfield D. 36.
    Marriage à la Mode. Hastings. 360.
    Ole Underwood. Mansfield D. 72.
    Pension Séguin. Mansfield D. 95.
    Poison. Mansfield D. 235.
    Samuel Josephs. O’Brien L. 120.
    See-Saw. Mansfield D. 209.
    Sixpence. Mansfield D. 225.
    Something Childish, but Very Natural. Mansfield D. 122.
    Spring Pictures. Mansfield D. 175.
    Suburban Fairy Tale. Mansfield D. 198.
    This Flower. Mansfield D. 215.
    Tiredness of Rosabel. Mansfield D. 1.
    Truthful Adventure. Mansfield D. 25.
    Two Tuppenny Ones, Please. Mansfield D. 184.
    Violet. Mansfield D. 104.
    Woman at the Store. Mansfield D. 55.
    Wrong House. Mansfield. D. 220.

  MARSHALL, ARCHIBALD. (1866– .) (_See 1923._)
    Oakfield House. O’Brien L. 127.

  MASEFIELD, JOHN. (1874– .) (_See 1924._)
    Davy Jones’s Gift. Rhys B. 205.
    In Nelson’s Time. French K. 223.
    Western Islands. Hastings. 256.

  MASON, ALFRED EDWARD WOODLEY. (1865– .)
    Hatteras. Rhys B. 131.

  MAUGHAM, WILLIAM SOMERSET. (1874– .) (_See 1923._)
    In a Strange Land. O’Brien L. 155.
    Letter. World. 275.
    Rain. Robinson. 331.
    Taipan. Rhys B. 341.

  MAYNE, ETHEL COLBURN. (_See 1924._)
    Black Magic. Mayne B. 55.
    Campaign. Mayne B. 97.
    Dialogue in a Cab. Mayne B. 189.
    Franklin’s Problem. Mayne B. 199.
    Latchkey. Mayne B. 9.
    Lavender and Lucinda. Mayne B. 139.
    Picnic. Mayne B. 155.
    Shirt of Nessus. Mayne B. 37.
    Still Life. Mayne B. 173.
    Stripes. Mayne B. 69.
    White Hair. Mayne B. 85.

  MERRICK, LEONARD. (1864– .) (_See 1923._)
    Laurels and the Lady. Aces B. 208.

  METCALFE, JOHN.
    Picnic. O’Brien M. 142.

  MEYNELL, VIOLA.
    We Were Just Saying. O’Brien L. 159.

  MITCHISON, NAOMI.
    Hostages. Georgian C. 187.

  MONKHOUSE, ALLAN NOBLE.
    Friend in Need. O’Brien M. 155.

  MONTAGUE, CHARLES EDWARD. (1867– .) (_See 1923._)
    In Hanging Garden Gully. Georgian C. 200.

  MORDAUNT, ELINOR EVELYN MAY. (_See 1923._)
    Fountain. Lynch. 194.
    Hodge. Rhys B. 102.

  MORTIMER, RAYMOND.
    Lion’s Den. O’Brien L. 168.

  MOULT, THOMAS (“SIDNEY SOUTHGATE.”) (_See 1923._)
    Third Chicken. Humphrey A. 157.

  MUIR, WARD. (1878– .)
    Reward of Enterprise. Rhys B. 263.


                                   O

  O’FLAHERTY, LIAM. (_See 1923._)
    Beauty. O’Flaherty. 77.
    Benedicamus Domino. O’Flaherty. 25.
    Black Bullock. O’Flaherty. 256.
    Black Mare. O’Flaherty. 141.
    Blackbird. O’Flaherty. 82.
    Bladder. O’Flaherty. 263.
    Blood Lust. O’Flaherty. 99.
    Colic. O’Flaherty. 215.
    Cow’s Death. O’Flaherty. 20.
    Doctor’s Visit. O’Flaherty. 174.
    Fight. O’Flaherty. 206.
    Going Into Exile. O’Flaherty. 269.
    His First Flight. O’Flaherty. 104.
    Hook. O’Flaherty. 168.
    Josephine. O’Flaherty. 224.
    Landing. O’Flaherty. 65.
    Pig in a Bedroom. O’Flaherty. 123.
    Pot of Gold. O’Flaherty. 194.
    Reaping Race. O’Brien M. 296.
    Rockfish. O’Flaherty. 60.
    Selling Pigs. O’Flaherty. 87.
    Shilling. O’Flaherty. 109.
    Sniper. O’Flaherty. 155.
    Sport: The Kill. O’Flaherty. 150.
    Spring Sowing. O’Flaherty. 9. O’Brien L. 202.
    Struggle. O’Flaherty. 237.
    Three Lambs. O’Flaherty. 115.
    Tramp. O’Flaherty. 40.
    Two Dogs. O’Flaherty. 162.
    Wave. O’Flaherty. 35.
    Wild Sow. O’Flaherty. 188.
    Wolf Lanigan’s Death. O’Flaherty. 242.
    Wren’s Nest. O’Flaherty. 134.

  O’LEARY, CON.
    Banished. O’Brien L. 209.


                                   P

  PAIN, BARRY.
    Not on the Passenger-List. Lynch. 244.

  PALMER, ARNOLD.
    Brown of Epsom. Georgian C. 214.

  PENN-SMITH, FRANK.
    Hang. Georgian C. 291.

  PICKTHALL, MARMADUKE WILLIAM. (1875– .)
    Quest. O Brien M. 159.

  POWYS, T. F. (_See 1923._)
    Alleluia. Rhys B. 305.
    Beautiful Sea. O’Brien L. 213.
    Painted Wagon. O’Brien M. 179.

  PUGH, EDWIN WILLIAM. (1874– .) (_See 1923._)
    Other Twin. Rhys B. 176.

  PURCHAS, SAMUEL. (1575?–1626.)
    Invincible Armada. French K. 1.


                                   R

  RALEIGH, SIR WALTER. (1552?–1618.)
    Revenge. French K. 21.

  RICHARDSON, DOROTHY M.
    Death. O’Brien L. 218.

  RICKWORD, EDGELL.
    Undine, the Last Adventurer of the Chevalier Errant. New Dec. D. 92.

  ROBERTS, MORLEY. (1857– .)
    Grear’s Dam. Rhys B. 272.

  ROBERTS, RICHARD ELLIS. (1879– .)
    Narrow Way. Rhys B. 184.

  ROOTHAM, HELEN.
    Creaking Sarah and Laughing Sal. O’Brien L. 221.

  RUSSELL, WILLIAM CLARK. (1844–1911.) (_See 1921._)
    Duel. French K. 166.


                                   S

  SACKVILLE-WEST, VIOLET. (_See 1923._)
    Seducers in Ecuador. Sackville-West. B.

  SADLEIR, MICHAEL. (_See 1923._)
    Mother’s Comedy. New Dec. D. 143.

  SCHREINER, OLIVE. (1863–1920.) (_See 1923._)
    Buddhist Priest’s Wife. Hastings. 146.

  SCOTT, MICHAEL. (1789–1835.) (_See 1923._)
    In the Hornet’s Nest. French K. 119.

  SIMPSON, HELEN.
    At the Mickleham Arms. O’Brien L. 226.

  SINCLAIR, MAY. (_See 1924._)
    Intercessor. Contact. 237.
    Victim. Lynch. 294.

  SITWELL, EDITH.
    Undergrowth. O’Brien L. 230.

  SITWELL, OSBERT. (1892– .) (_See 1923._)
    Friendship’s Due. Sitwell. 67.
    Greeting. Georgian C. 254. Sitwell. 99.
    His Ship Comes Home. Sitwell. 145.
    Low Tide. Sitwell. 11.
    Machine Breaks Down. Sitwell. 175.
    Triple Fugue. Sitwell. 193.

  SMITH, PAULINE.
    Anna’s Marriage. Smith E. 107.
    Ludovitje. Smith E. 147.
    Miller. Smith E. 69.
    Pain. Smith. E. 17.
    Pastor’s Daughter. Smith E. 125.
    Schoolmaster. Smith E. 49.
    Sinner. Smith E. 85.
    Sisters. Smith E. 157.

  SMITH, WILL.
    Escape of Saemundr. O’Brien M. 184.

  SMOLLETT, TOBIAS GEORGE. (1721–1771.)
    In Good King George’s Time. French K. 54.

  SQUIRE, JOHN COLLINGS. (1884– .)
    Baxteriana. Squire. 136.
    Best Seller. Squire. 38.
    Cemetery. Squire. 184.
    Golden Scileus. Squire. 114.
    Lecture. Squire. 159.
    Man Who Kept A Diary. Squire. 13. Georgian C. 299.
    Man Who Wrote Free Verse. Squire. 239.
    Painful Dilemma. Squire. 215.
    Success. Squire. 72.

  STACPOOLE, HENRY DE VERE. (1865– .) (_See 1921._)
    King of Maleka. Rhys. B. 285.

  STEPHENS, JAMES. (1882– .) (_See 1924._)
    Three Heavy Husbands. Hastings. 322.

  STERN, G. B. (MRS. GEOFFREY LISLE HOLDSWORTH.) (1890– .) (_See 1923._)
    “Beloved.” Aces B. 291.
    “Eleventh Hat.” Aces. 238.

  STEVENSON, ROBERT LOUIS. (1850–1894.) (_See 1924._)
    Sword of Alan. French K. 34.
    Providence and the Guitar. Hastings. 75.

  STRONG, LEONARD A. G.
    Buckross Ring. New Dec. D. 40.
    Storm. O’Brien M. 188.


                                   T

  THACKERAY, WILLIAM MAKEPEACE. (1811–1863.) (_See 1921._)
    Barbazure. Hastings. 34.

  TOMLINSON, H. M. (1873– .) (_See 1920._)
    Bible Brown. O’Brien L. 244.

  TURNER, W. J. (1889– .)
    Mask of Michichiyo. O’Brien L. 251.


                                   V

  VACHELL, HORACE ANNESLEY. (1861– .)
    Tug of War. Georgian C. 317.


                                   W

  WALPOLE, HUGH SEYMOUR. (1884– .) (_See 1923._)
    Enemy in Ambush. O’Brien M. 202.
    Lois Drake. Robinson. 433.

  WARREN, C. HENRY.
    While ’Zekiel Ploughed. O’Brien M. 214.

  WATSON, E. L. GRANT. _See_ GRANT WATSON. E. L.

  WELLS, A. W.
    “Chanson Triste.” O’Brien M. 230.

  WELLS, HERBERT GEORGE. (1866– .) (_See 1924._)
    Truth About Pyecraft. Robinson. 454.

  WHEEN, ARTHUR.
    Two Masters. O’Brien M. 240.

  WHYMPER, FREDERICK.
    Great Sea Serpent. French K. 247.

  WILSON, ROMER. (MRS. EDWARD J. O’BRIEN.) (1891– .)
    Tambourin Chinois. O’Brien L. 264.

  WYLIE, IDA ALENA ROSS. (1885– .) (_See 1920._)
    Little Fraülein and the Big World. World. 13.


                                   Y

  YEATS, WILLIAM BUTLER. (1865– .)
    Crucifixion of the Outcast. Rhys B. 74.

  YOUNG, FRANCIS BRETT. (1884– .)
    Cage Bird. O’Brien M. 260.


                                   Z

  ZANGWILL, ISRAEL. (1864– .) (_See 1924._)
    Noah’s Ark. Aces. 276.


                            III. Translations

                                   A

  AKURATERS, JANIS, (1876– .) (_Latvian._)
    Death. Eaton A. 239.

  ANDERSEN, HANS CHRISTIAN. (1805–1875.) (_Danish._)
    Shepherdess and the Chimney Sweep. Newman. 61.

  ANONYMOUS. (_French._)
    About the Peasant Who Got into Heaven by Pleading. Newman. 20.
    Of the Churl Who Won Paradise. Hastings. 1.

  ANONYMOUS. (_Japanese._)
    Account of the Hari-Kiri. Seitz. 280.
    Archery in the Olden Time. Seitz. 236.
    Bell of Kawagoye. Seitz. 124.
    Bitter for Sweet. Seitz. 219.
    Carp in a Dream. Seitz. 106.
    Confessions of Two Monks. Seitz. 240.
    Doll Flowers. Seitz. 183.
    Dream or No? Seitz. 231.
    Fencing-Master’s Story. Seitz. 132.
    Forty-Seven Ronins. Seitz. 3.
    Fowler. Seitz. 128.
    Hangataro: The Faithful Dog. Seitz. 245.
    Heroism of Torii Katsutaka. Seitz. 58.
    Hidakagawa. Seitz. 254.
    Holy Houses of Sleep. Seitz. 206.
    Honest Kyusuke. Seitz. 35.
    How to Meet Death. Seitz. 77.
    Human Destiny. Seitz. 77.
    Ichinotani. Seitz. 194.
    Living-Field River. Seitz. 210.
    Mecca of the Pilgrim. Seitz. 152.
    My Lord Bag-o’-Rice. Hearn B. 47.
    Old Man and the Mirror. Seitz. 227.
    Ooka as a Matchmaker. Seitz. 164.
    Oshichi of the Greengrocer. Seitz. 135.
    Priest’s Staff. Seitz. 201.
    Rat Boy. Seitz. 177.
    Shuzo’s Wife--A Story of True Love. Seitz. 113.
    Sundry Ghosts. Seitz. 170.
    Sword. Seitz. 259.
    True Story of Hidari Jingoro. Seitz. 79.
    Ungo-yenji. Seitz. 265.
    Vision of the Unseen. Seitz. 214.
    Winning Without Hands. Seitz. 148.
    Wrestling of a Damio. Seitz. 89.

  ABOSEV, A. (_Russian._)
    Lenin. Osip. 137.
    Soldiers. Osip. 130.


                                   B

  BARBEY D’AUREVILLY, JULES. (1808–1889.) (_French._)
    At a Dinner of Atheists. Barbey. 181.
    Beneath the Cards of a Game of Whist. Barbey. 127.
    Crimson Curtain. Barbey. 3.
    Greatest Love of Don Juan. Barbey. 51.
    Happiness in Crime. Barbey. 77.
    Woman’s Revenge. Barbey. 239.

  BLASCO IBANEZ, VINCENTE. (1867– .) (_See 1920._) (_Spanish._)
    Cabure Feather. Ibáñez B. 221.
    Four Sons of Eve. Ibáñez B. 182.
    General’s Automobile. Ibáñez B. 280.
    Hero. Ibáñez B. 35.
    Life Sentence. Ibáñez B. 330.
    Mad Virgins. Ibáñez B. 381.
    Martinez’s Insurrection. Ibáñez B. 305.
    Monster. Ibáñez B. 350.
    Old Woman of the Movies. Ibáñez B. 1.
    Serbian Night. Ibáñez B. 341.
    Serenade. Ibáñez B. 256.
    Shot in the Night. Ibáñez B. 104.
    Sleeping Car Porter. Ibáñez B. 369.
    Sunset. Ibáñez B. 150. Eaton A. 362.
    Widow’s Loan. Ibáñez B. 63.

  BOCCACCIO, GIOVANNI. (1313?–1375.) (_Italian._)
    Abraham Goes to the Court of Rome. Newman. 34.

  BOULENGER, MARCEL. (1873– .) (_French._)
    Prodigal Child. Eaton B. 3.

  BOURGET, PAUL. (1852– .) (_French._)
    Father and Son. Eaton B. 54.

  BOUTET, FREDERIC. (_See 1922._) (_French._)
    Quarter Pound. Eaton B. 74.

  BRATESCU-VOINESTI, J. A. (1869– .) (_Rumanian._)
    Violoncello. Eaton A. 298.

  BROCCHI, VIRGILIO. (_Italian._)
    Illusion. Eaton A. 158.


                                   C

  CAPEK, KAREL. (_Czechoslovak._)
    Imprint. Eaton A. 42.

  CAPEK, KAREL. (1890– .) _and_ CAPEK, JOSEF. (1887– .)
        (_Czechoslovak._)
    Island. Busch. 165.
    Living Flame. Busch. 180.

  CAPEK-CHOD, K. M. (1850– .) (_Czechoslovak._)
    At the Rotary Machine. Busch. 193.

  CHEKHOV, ANTON PAVLOVITCH. (1861–1904.) (_See 1923._) (_Russian._)
   Darling. Newman. 222.

  “COLETTE.” (MME. HENRI DE JOUVENEL.) (_French._)
    Ambulance Dogs. Colette. 151.
    Autumn. Colette. 99.
    For Sale: A Little Dog. Colette. 41.
    Jealous Dog. Colette. 9.
    Little Bulldog. Colette. 94.
    “Lolu”--the White Borzoi. Colette. 59.
    Man With the Fishes. Colette. 133.
    Monsieur Maurice. Eaton B. 88.
    Monsieur Rouzade’s Little Pig. Colette. 140.
    Mother Cat. Colette. 86.
    Nonache--A Cat and a Kitten. Colette. 78.
    Performing Dogs. Colette. 67.
    Politicians, or The Old Lady and the Bear. Colette. 145.
    “Poum”--The Devil Cat. Colette. 1.
    Perrou--The Cat Who Had Such a Sad Life. Colette. 16.
    Ricotte--The Brazilian Squirrel. Colette. 122.
    Shah--The Persian Cat. Colette. 25.
    Snakes. Colette. 128.
    Taxidermist and the Cat. Colette. 106.
    Tomcat. Colette. 34.
    Too Small for a Dog. Colette. 51.
    Zoölogical Garden. Colette. 115.


                                   D

  DAUDET, ALPHONSE. (1840–1897.) (_See 1921._) (_French._)
    Death of the Dauphin. Hastings. 43.

  D’AGUILAR, A. (_Portuguese._)
    Treasure of Almeida. Eaton A. 271.

  DRIEU LA ROCHELLE, P. (_French._)
    Empty Bag. Eaton B. 92.

  DUHAMEL, GEORGES. (“DENYS THEVENIN.”) (1894– .) (_French._)
    Miracle. Eaton B. 130.

  DUVERNOIS, HENRI. (1873– .) (_See 1922._) (_French._)
    Jacqueline. Jacqueline. 3.
    Man’s Man. Eaton B. 139.


                                   E

  EJERINS, JANIS. (1891– .) (_Latvian._)
    Pink Ass. Eaton A. 227.

  ELSTER, KRISTIAN. (_Norwegian._)
    Uncle Ferdinand. Eaton A. 247.


                                   F

  “FARRERE, CLAUDE.” (FREDERIC-CHARLES-PIERRE-EDOUARD BARGONE.) (1876–
        .) (_French._)
    Year 1937. Eaton B. 167.

  FLAUBERT, GUSTAVE. (1821–1881.) (_French._)
    Herodias. Flaubert. 125.
    Legend of St. Julian the Hospitaller. Flaubert. 75.
    Simple Heart. Flaubert. 13.


                                   G

  GARDONY, GEZA. (_Hungarian._)
    Getting Acquainted. Eaton A. 144.
    Painter in the Village. Eaton A. 136.

  GERALDY, PAUL. (_French._)
    Prelude. Eaton B. 186.

  “GESTA ROMANORUM.” (_Latin._)
    Tale of the Emperor, the Lyon, and the Bere. Newman. 29.

  GLESSNER, EDMOND. (_Belgian._)
    At the Sign of the Pelican. Eaton A. 22.

  GOBINEAU, JOSEPH ARTHUR, COMTE DE. (1816–1882.) (_French._)
    Dancing Girl of Shamakha. Gobineau. 17.
    Illustrious Magician. Gobineau. 185.
    Lovers of Kandahar. Gobineau. 185.
    Story of Gamber-Aly. Gobineau. 81.
    War with the Turkomans. Gobineau. 133.

  “GORKY, MAXIM.” (ALEXEI MAXIMOVITCH PYESHKOV.) (1868 or 1869– .)
        (_See 1922._) (_Russian._)
    Hermit. Gorky D. 137.
    Incident. Gorky D. 40.
    Rehearsal. Gorky D. 87.
    Sky-Blue Life. Gorky D. 180.
    Story of a Novel. Gorky D. 3.

  GUITET-VAUQUELIN, PIERRE. (1882– .) (_French._)
    Passion of Aragon. Eaton B. 327.


                                   H

  HALID, RESIK. (_Turkish._)
    Grey Donkey. Eaton A. 403.
    Peach Garden. Eaton A. 392.

  HELLSTROM, GUSTAV. (1882– .) (_Swedish._)
    Theodore. Eaton A. 378.

  HERRMANN, IGNAT. (1854– .) (_See 1920._) (_Czechoslovak._)
    Childless. Busch. 97.

  HUGO, VICTOR-MARIE. (1802–1895.) (_See 1921._) (_French._)
    Octopus. French K. 336.


                                   I

  IBANEZ, VINCENTE BLASCO, _See_ BLASCO IBANEZ, VINCENTE.

  IVANOFF, VSEVOLOD. (_Russian._)
    Child. Eaton A. 306.
    ’Merican. Osip. 114.
    On the Rails. Osip. 121.


                                   J

  JENSEN, JOHANNES V. (_Danish._)
    Maiden. Eaton A. 59.

  JOSEPH-RENAUD, J. (_French._)
    Behind the Veil. Jacqueline. 75.


                                   K

  KALLAS, AINO. (_See 1924._) (_Finnish._)
    Smuggler. Eaton A. 70.

  KASATKIN, IVAN. (_Russian._)
    Flying Osip. Osip. 21.

  KATHFORNE, N. G. (_Greek._)
    For a New Resurrection. Eaton A. 108.

  KESSEL, J. (_French._)
    Child Who Came Back. Eaton B. 267.

  KOLOSOV, MARK. (_Russian._)
    Thirteen. Osip. 147.

  KUPRIN, ALEXANDER. (1870– .) (_See 1920._) (_Russian._)
    Captain Rybrinkoff. Eaton A. 318.
    Disciple. Kuprin C. 115.
    Gambrinus. Kuprin C. 11.
    Monte Carlo. Kuprin C. 77.
    Old City of Marseilles. Kuprin C. 149.
    Roach Hole. Kuprin C. 95.


                                   L

  LACRETELLE, JACQUES DE. (_French._)
    Beautiful Day. Eaton B. 277.

  LAFORGUE, JULES. (1860–1887.) (_French._)
    Miracle of the Roses. Newman. 146.

  LECHARTIER, GEORGES. (1868– .) (_French._)
    Two Heroes. Eaton B. 297.

  LE NORMAND, HENRI RENE. (1882– .) (_French._)
    Moroccan Spring. Eaton B. 315.

  LEVEL, MAURICE. (_See 1922._) (_French._)
    Old Maids. Jacqueline. 223.

  LICHTENBERGER, ANDRE. (1870– .) (_French._)
    Poor Man. Eaton B. 326.

  “LOTI, PIERRE.” (LOUIS-MARIE-JULIEN VIAUD.) (1850–? .) (_See 1921._)
        (_French._)
    Fishers of the Deep. French K. 90.


                                   M

  MACORLAN, PIERRE. (1883– .) (_See 1922._) (_French._)
    King Rose. Eaton B. 365.

  MAKUSZYNSKI, KORNEL. (_Polish._)
    Forgotten Ghost. Eaton A. 259.

  MANN, THOMAS. (1875– .) (_See 1924._) (_German._)
    Death in Venice. Mann. 13.
    Tonio Kröger. Mann. 193.
    Tristan. Mann. 127.

  MAUPASSANT, HENRI-RENE-ALBERT-GUY DE. (1850–1893.) (_See 1924._)
        (_French._)
    Baptism. Maupassant K. 223.
    Caresses. Maupassant J. 51.
    Child. Maupassant K. 145.
    Clochette. Maupassant J. 110.
    Coco. Maupassant K. 135.
    Denis. Maupassant J. 259.
    Devil. Maupassant K. 137.
    Dowry. Maupassant K. 111.
    Epiphany. Maupassant J. 148.
    Family. Maupassant J. 165.
    Forgiveness. Maupassant K. 283.
    Hand. Maupassant K. 55.
    Happiness. Maupassant K. 87.
    He! Maupassant K. 99.
    Hole. Maupassant J. 101.
    Horla. Maupassant J. 57.
    Jewelry. Maupassant K. 185.
    Jewels. Newman. 135.
    Julie Romain. Maupassant J. 11.
    Little Soldier. Hastings. 104.
    Love. Maupassant J. 93.
    Madame Parisse. Maupassant J. 1.
    Madman. Maupassant K. 31.
    Marquis of Fumerol. Maupassant J. 117.
    Old Amable. Maupassant J. 22.
    Old Cripple. Maupassant K. 247.
    Old Man. Maupassant K. 199.
    On Horseback. Maupassant K. 233.
    Parricide. Maupassant K. 171.
    Robber. Maupassant K. 213.
    Saint Anthony. Maupassant K. 1.
    Sigh. Maupassant J. 128.
    Simon’s Papa. Maupassant K. 15.
    Solitude. Maupassant K. 45.
    ’Toine. Maupassant K. 67.
    Two Friends. Maupassant K. 123.
    Walk. Maupassant K. 123.
    Wolf. Maupassant K. 273.

  MERIMEE, PROSPER. (1803–1870.) (_French._)
    Etruscan Vase. Newman. 110.

  MILLE, PIERRE. (1864– .) (_See 1922._) (_French._)
    Field Marshal. Jacqueline. 59.

  MILOSHLEVICH, MOMCHILO. (_Jugoslav._)
    Vassitza. Eaton A. 191.

  MORAND, PAUL. (1888– .) (_See 1924._) (_French._)
    Child of a Hundred Years. Eaton B. 378.
    Nordic Night. Newman. 312.

  MUSSET, ALFRED DE. (1810–1857.) (_French._)
    Mimi Pinson. Newman. 73.


                                   N

  NERUDA, JAN. (1834–1891.) (_See 1920._) (_Czechoslovak._)
    Vampire. Busch. 90.

  NOAILLES, COMTESSE ANNA MATHIEU DE. (1876– .) (_French._)
    Fear of Being Useless. Eaton B. 387.


                                   O

  OGAWA, MIMEI (_Japanese._)
    Day He Could Not Walk. Ogawa. 45.
    Red Poison. Ogawa. 63.
    Rose and Witch. Ogawa. 3
    Rosy Finger. Ogawa. 23.


                                   P

  PETRONIUS ARBITER. (?–66.) (_Latin._)
    Matron of Ephesus. Newman. 10.

  PICARD, GASTON-LOUIS-CHARLES. (1892– .) (_French._)
    Great Unrest of Man. Eaton B. 403.

  PILNIAK, BORIS. (_Russian._)
    Always on Detachment. Pilniak. 85.
    Bielokonskoie. Eaton A. 353.
    Bielokonsky Estate. Pilniak. 165.
    Crossways. Pilniak. 211.
    Death. Pilniak. 181.
    Forest Manor. Pilniak. 135.
    Heirs. Pilniak. 195.
    Over the Ravine. Pilniak. 69.
    Snow. Pilniak. 1.
    Snow Wind. Pilniak. 121.
    Thousand Years. Pilniak. 53.
    Year of Their Lives. Pilniak. 37
    Leather Jackets. Osip. 56.

  PIRANDELLO, LUIGI. (1867– .) (_Italian._)
    Red Notebook. Eaton A. 183.

  POHJANPAA, LAURI. (_Finnish._)
    The Death of Old Deemster. Eaton A. 78.


                                   R

  REMIZOV, ALEKSEI. (_See 1924._) (_Russian._)
    Clock. Remizov. 3.
    Betrothed. Remizov. 205.
    Easter. Remizov. 211.
    White Heart. Remizov. 195.

  “ROSNY, J. H., _aïné._” (J. _and_ H. BOËX.) (1856– .) (_See 1922._)
        (_French._)
    Immortal Curse. Eaton B. 414.

  RUMANIA, MARIE, QUEEN OF. (_Rumannian._)
    In the Winter of War. Eaton A. 287.


                                   S

  SALDA, F. X. (1868– .) (_Czechoslovak._)
    Death of Count Christopher des Loges. Busch. 213.

  SCHNITZLER, ARTHUR. (1862– .) (_See 1924._) (_Austrian._)
    Fate of the Baron Von Leisenbohg. Eaton A. 3.

  SEIFULINA, LYDIA. (_Russian._)
    Lawbreakers. Osip. 61.

  SEMENOV, S. (_Russian._)
    Hunger: A Diary. Osip. 170.

  SHISHKOV, VYACHESLAV. (_Russian._)
    Theatrical Performance in the Hamlet of Ogrysovo. Osip. 34.

  “SVETLA, CAROLINE.” (JOHANNA ROTTOVA MUZAK.) (1830–1899.) (_See
        1920._) (_Czechoslovak._)
    Kiss. Busch. 1.

  SVOBODOVA, RUZENA. (1868–1920.) (_Czechoslovak._)
    Shot. Busch. 235.


                                   T

  TETMAJER, KAZIMIERZ. (_Polish._)
    Maiden Dew. Freeman. 283.

  THARAUD, JEAN. (1877– .) _and_ THARAUD, JEROME. (1874– .) (_French._)
    Bells of Marrakech. Eaton B. 432.

  THEER, OTOKAR. (1885–1917.) (_Czechoslovak._)
    Naughty Child. Busch. 225.


                                   U

  UPITIS, ANDREJS. (1877– .) (_Latvian._)
    Golden Staircase. Eaton A. 201.


                                   V

  VANDEMERE, HEENDRICK. (_Dutch._)
    Caliban. Eaton A. 127.

  VAZOFF, IVAN. (1850– .) (_Bulgarian._)
    Is He Coming? Eaton A. 35.

  VERGA, GIOVANNI. (1840–1922.)
    Across the Sea. Verga. 211.
    Black Bread. Verga. 129.
    Don Licciu Papa. Verga. 41.
    Gentry. Verga. 183.
    His Reverence. Verga. 13.
    Liberty. Verga. 197.
    Malaria. Verga. 67.
    Mystery Play. Verga. 53.
    Orphans. Verga. 81.
    Property. Verga. 95.
    So Much for the King. Verga. 29.
    Story of the Saint Joseph’s Ass. Verga. 107.

  VERHAEREN, EMILE. (1855–1916.) (_Belgian._)
    Horse Fair at Opdorp. Verhaeren. 49.
    In a Village. Verhaeren. 37.
    Inn of Gentle Death. Verhaeren. 13.
    One Night. Verhaeren. 79.
    Three Friends. Verhaeren. 63.

  VOLTAIRE, FRANCOIS-AROUET DE. (1694–1778.) (_French._)
    Old Woman’s Story. Newman. 45.


                                   W

  WARNOD, ANDRE. (_French._)
    Nénette, Alice, and Marie. Jacqueline. 175.

  WINCKLER, JOSEPH. (_German._)
    Holiday Child. Eaton A. 89.


                                   Z

  ZOZULYA, EFIM. (_Russian._)
    A Mere Trifle. Osip. 288.




                           MAGAZINE AVERAGES

                   OCTOBER, 1924, TO SEPTEMBER, 1925


_The following table includes the averages of distinctive stories in
twenty American periodicals published from October, 1924, to September,
1925, inclusive. One, two and three asterisks are employed to indicate
relative distinction. “Three-asterisk stories” are considered worth
reprinting in book form. The list excludes reprints._


  -----------------------+---------+----------------+------------------
                         |         |    NO. OF      |    PERCENTAGE
                         | NO. OF  |  DISTINCTIVE   |  OF DISTINCTIVE
         PERIODICALS     | STORIES |    STORIES     |      STORIES
                         |PUBLISHED|   PUBLISHED    |     PUBLISHED
                         |         +-----+----+-----+-----+------+-----
                         |         |  *  | ** | *** |  *  |  **  | ***
  -----------------------+---------+-----+----+-----+-----+------+-----
   American Mercury      |    17   |  13 | 10 |  6  |  77 |  59  |  35
   Atlantic Monthly      |    26   |  24 | 20 |  11 |  92 |  77  |  42
   Catholic World        |    31   |  15 |  1 |   1 |  48 |   3  |   3
   Century               |    26   |  26 | 20 |  14 | 100 |  77  |  54
   Chicago Tribune       |    52   |  14 |  8 |   2 |  27 |  15  |   4
    (Syndicate Service)  |         |     |    |     |     |      |
   Collier’s Weekly      |   163   |  56 | 18 |  11 |  34 |  11  |   7
    (except September 19)|         |     |    |     |     |      |
   Cosmopolitan          |   128   |  46 | 20 |   8 |  36 |  16  |   6
   Delineator            |    30   |   9 |  0 |   0 |  30 |   0  |   0
   Designer              |    38   |   7 |  1 |   1 |  18 |   3  |   3
   Dial                  |    17   |  17 | 17 |  16 | 100 | 100  |  94
   Everybody’s Magazine  |    74   |  16 |  5 |   2 |  22 |   7  |   3
   Good Housekeeping     |    55   |  19 | 11 |   7 |  35 |  20  |  13
   Harper’s Magazine     |    36   |  35 | 28 |  15 |  97 |  77  |  42
   Ladies’ Home Journal  |    52   |  17 |  9 |   1 |  33 |  18  |   2
   Midland               |    23   |  21 |  8 |   0 |  91 |  35  |   0
   Pictorial Review      |    49   |  33 | 21 |  13 |  66 |  42  |  26
   Red Book Magazine     |   119   |  28 | 15 |   5 |  24 |  13  |   4
   Saturday Evening Post |   396   |  67 | 14 |   5 |  16 |   4  |   1
   Scribner’s Magazine   |    42   |  26 | 12 |   6 |  62 |  29  |  15
   Woman’s Home Companion|    63   |  27 |  3 |   1 |  43 |   5  |   2
  =======================+=========+=====+====+=====+=====+======+=====


_The following tables indicate the rank, during the period between
October, 1924, and September, 1925, inclusive, by number and percentage
of distinctive short stories published, of twenty periodicals coming
within the scope of my examination which have published an average of
15 per cent or more of distinctive stories. The lists exclude reprints,
but not translations._


                              BY PERCENTAGE

         1. Century Magazine                             100%
         2. Dial                                         100%
         3. Harper’s Magazine                             97%
         4. Atlantic Monthly                              92%
         5. Midland                                       91%
         6. American Mercury                              77%
         7. Pictorial Review                              66%
         8. Scribner’s Magazine                           62%
         9. Catholic World                                48%
        10. Woman’s Home Companion                        43%
        11. Cosmopolitan                                  36%
        12. Good Housekeeping                             35%
        13. Collier’s Weekly                              34%
        14. Ladies’ Home Journal                          33%
        15. Delineator                                    30%
        16. Chicago Tribune (Syndicate Service)           27%
        17. Red Book Magazine                             24%
        18. Everybody’s Magazine                          22%
        19. Designer                                      18%
        20. Saturday Evening Post                         16%


                                BY NUMBER

         1. Saturday Evening Post                         67
         2. Collier’s Weekly                              56
         3. Cosmopolitan                                  46
         4. Harper’s Magazine                             35
         5. Pictorial Review                              33
         6. Red Book Magazine                             28
         7. Woman’s Home Companion                        27
         8. Century Magazine                              26
         9. Scribner’s Magazine                           26
        10. Atlantic Monthly                              24
        11. Midland                                       21
        12. Good Housekeeping                             19
        13. Dial                                          17
        14. Ladies’ Home Journal                          17
        15. Everybody’s Magazine                          16
        16. Catholic World                                15
        17. Chicago Tribune (Syndicate Service)           14
        18. American Mercury                              13
        19. Delineator                                     9
        20. Designer                                       7


_The following periodicals have published during the same period ten
or more “two-asterisk stories.” The list excludes reprints, but not
translations, Periodicals represented in this list during 1915, 1916,
etc., to 1924 inclusive are represented by the prefixed letters a, b,
etc., to j inclusive._

         1.  abcdefghij   Harper’s Magazine          28
         2.   bcdefghij   Pictorial Review           21
         3.  abcdefghij   Century Magazine           20
         4.    cdef hij   Atlantic Monthly           20
         5.          ij   Cosmopolitan               20
         6.  abcde    j   Collier’s Weekly           18
         7.       fghi    Dial                       17
         8.          i    Red Book Magazine          15
         9.  abcdef   j   Saturday Evening Post      14
        10.  abcdef hij   Scribner’s Magazine        12
        11.               Good Housekeeping          11
        12.               American Mercury           10
        13.          i    Hearst’s International     10


_The following periodicals have published during the same period five
or more “three-asterisk stories.” The list excludes reprints, but not
translations. The same signs are used as prefixes as in the previous
list._

         1.       fghij   Dial                       16
         2.  abcdefghij   Harper’s Magazine          15
         3.  abcdefghij   Century Magazine           14
         4.   bcdefghij   Pictorial Review           13
         5.    cdef hij   Atlantic Monthly           11
         6.  ab d     j   Collier’s Weekly           11
         7.          ij   Cosmopolitan                8
         8.           j   Transatlantic Review        7
         9.    c      j   Good Housekeeping           7
        10.               American Mercury            6
        11. a             Forum                       6
        12. abcdef hij    Scribner’s Magazine         6
        13.         ij    Hearst’s International      6
        14.               Bookman (New York)          5
        15.         i     Red Book Magazine           5
        16. abc ef  i     Saturday Evening Post       5
        17.               MacLean’s Magazine          5

_Ties in the above lists have been decided by taking relative rank in
other lists into account._




         INDEX OF SHORT STORIES PUBLISHED IN AMERICAN MAGAZINES

                   OCTOBER, 1924, TO SEPTEMBER, 1925

  _All short stories published in the following magazines are indexed_:

  All’s Well
  American Magazine
  American Mercury
  American-Scandinavian Review
  Asia
  Atlantic Monthly
  Bookman (New York)
  Books (New York Herald-Tribune)
  Catholic World
  Century
  Chicago Tribune (Syndicate Service)
  Collier’s Weekly (except September 19)
  Cosmopolitan
  Delineator
  Designer
  Dial
  Double Dealer
  Echo
  Everybody’s Magazine
  Forum
  Golden Book
  Good Housekeeping
  Guardian (Philadelphia)
  Harper’s Bazar
  Harper’s Magazine
  Hearst’s International
  Holland’s Magazine
  Independent
  International Arts
  Ladies’ Home Journal
  Leonardo
  Liberty
  Living Age (except April 18 to August 29)
  Little Review
  McCall’s Magazine (except July to September)
  Menorah Journal
  Midland
  Modern Quarterly
  New Republic
  New York Tribune (except September 13 and 20)
  North American Review
  Opportunity
  Outlook (New York)
  Pearson’s Magazine (Chicago)
  Pictorial Review
  Red Book Magazine
  Reviewer
  Saturday Evening Post
  Scribner’s Magazine
  Southwest Review
  Stratford Monthly
  Transatlantic Review
  Vanity Fair
  Wave
  Woman’s Home Companion
  Workers’ Monthly
  World Tomorrow
  Yale Review


_Short stories of distinction only, published in the following
magazines during the same period, are indexed. The list includes two
British periodicals in which American stories were published which did
not appear elsewhere._

  Adventure
  Ainslee’s Magazine
  American Boy
  American Hebrew
  Blue Book Magazine
  B’nai B’rith Magazine
  Calendar (London)
  Canadian Forum
  Cedar Rapids Republican
  Charm
  Commonweal
  Country Gentleman
  Day, The
  Dearborn Independent
  Elks Magazine
  Farm and Fireside
  Frontier
  Golden Galleon
  Hue and Cry
  Inter-America
  Iowa Literary Magazine
  Jewish Forum
  Jewish Tribune
  London Mercury
  McClure’s Magazine
  Macfadden Fiction-Lover’s Magazine
  MacLean’s Magazine
  Munsey’s Magazine
  New York Evening Post Literary
  Review
  Open Road
  Popular Magazine
  Sea Stories Magazine
  Short Stories
  Sunset
  Trident
  Woman’s World
  Young Israel


_I have considered many other magazines without finding any stories of
distinction. One, two or three asterisks are prefixed to the titles of
stories to indicate distinction. Three asterisks prefixed to a title
indicate the fact that the story is listed in the “Roll of Honor.”
Cross references after an author’s name refer to the last previous
volume of this series in which his or her name appeared. (H) after the
name of an author indicates that other stories by this author have been
published in American periodicals between 1900 and 1914, and that these
stories are listed in “The Standard Index of Short Stories” by Francis
J. Hannigan, published by Small, Maynard and Company, 1918. The figures
in parentheses after the title of a story refer to the volume and page
number of the magazine. In cases where successive numbers of a magazine
are not paged consecutively, the page number only is given in this
index. As the reader will have noted, a few odd numbers of periodicals
have been so far unprocurable for my purpose. I hope to report upon
these next year. Those which I failed to obtain in time for last year’s
book are for the most part reported upon here._


                           I. AMERICAN AUTHORS

                                   A

  ABBOTT, ELEANOR HALLOWELL. (MRS. FORDYCE COBURN.) (1872– .) (_See
        1924._) (_H._)
    Out of Nothing--and Roses. Del. May. (5.)

  ABDULLAH, ACHMED. (ACHMED ABDULLAH NADIR KHAN EL-DURANI
        EL-IDRISSYEH.) (“A. A. NADIR”.) (1881– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Affair of Honor. Hear. Jan. (58.)
    *Ahee! Des. Aug. (5.)
    First Hundred Thousand. Ev. June. (10.)
    **Gates of Tamerlane. A. Merc. Aug., ’24. (2:391.)
    *Hound of the Wilderness. McCall. Feb. (14.)
    *Magnificent Gesture. Elks. Mar. (5.)
    *Matter of Oriental Imagination. Elks. July. (4.)
    Million. Ev. Aug. (25.)
    *“Say Ye of the Truth: Is This Sorcery?” Chic. Trib. Dec. 14, ’24.
    Second Hundred Thousand. Ev. July. (75.)

  ABER, CAROLINE.
    **Morituri. Mid. Nov., ’24. (10:387.)

  “ADAMS, BILL.” (BERTRAM M. ADAMS.) (1879– .) (_See 1924._)
    *Helmsman of the Mandarin. Adv. Aug., 30. (99.)
    **Old Sea Flower. Adv. Dec. 20, ’24. (37.)
    “Said Death--With his Magniloquent Breath.” Outl. (N. Y.) June 10.
        (140:232.)
    Slim Ball’s Religion. Outl. (N. Y.) May 6. (140:28.)
    *Three Thieves. Outl. (N. Y.) Sept. 16. (141:97.)

  ADAMS, DAVID ERNEST. (1891– .)
    ***“Truth is Stranger--.” Atl. Apr. (135:470.)

  ADAMS, EVA MOORE.
    Shady. Scr. Dec., ’24. (76:625.)

  ADAMS, FRANK R. (1883– .) (_See 1924._)
    Against all Comers. Ly. Dec. 6, ’24. (11.)
    Bungleshed. Ly. Jun. 14, ’24. (11.)
    For Love of Money. Cos. Jan. (65.)
    Highlighter. Ly. Sept. 27, ’24. (9.) Oct. 4, ’24. (35.)
    Little Miss Light Fingers. Cos. Nov., ’24. (89.)
    Rendezvous in Paris. Cos. June. (84.)
    Spare Parts. Am. March. (31.)
    Words that begin with K. Ly. Oct. 25, ’24. (5.)

  ADAMS, SAMUEL HOPKINS. (1871– .) (_See 1923._) (_H._)
    It Did Happen. Ly. Nov. 1, ’24. (14.)
    Ostrich. Chic. Trib. Oct. 12, ’24.

  ADDINGTON, SARAH. (1891– .) (_See 1923._)
    Four Letter Word Meaning Girl. L. H. J. July. (8.)

  AIKEN, CONRAD. (1889– .) (_See 1923._)
    ***Disciple. Harp. M. Dec., ’24. (150:11.)
    ***Last Visit. Dial. April. (78:285.)
    ***Strange Moonlight. Dial. Mar. (78:195.)

  AKERS, ARTHUR K. (_H._)
    Execution of Bugwine. Red Bk. May. (93.)
    Meet the Manager. Red. Bk. Sept. (75.)
    *Old Man Debbow. Red Bk. Apr. (90.)

  ALDRICH, BESS STREETER. (“MARGARET DEAN STEVENS”.) (1881– .) (_See
        1924._)
    Weakling. Am. Feb. (46.)

  ALDRICH, DARRAGH. (_See 1924._)
    “Hel” Breaks Loose. Del. Aug. (12)

  ALEXANDER, CHARLES. (_See 1924._)
    Major of Lamontai. Ev. Feb. (122.)

  ALEXANDER, ELIZABETH. (1894– .) (_See 1924._)
    Lunch Money. S. E. P. Feb. 28. (45.)

  “ALEXANDER, MARY.” _See_ KILBOURNE, FANNIE.

  “ALEXANDER, SANDRA.” (MILDRED ALEXANDER LEWIS.) (1888– .) (_See
        1924._)
    ***The Gift. Rev. April. (5:77.)

  ALLEN, JAMES LANE. (1849–1925.) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    ***King Solomon of Kentucky. (_R._) G. B. May. (1:692.)

  ANDERSON, DAVID MERRILL.
    **Play a Waltz. A. Merc. Mar. (4:314.)
    **Raveling. Cen. Sept. (110:589.)

  ANDERSON, FREDERICK IRVING. (1877– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Fifty-Fifty. S. E. P. Dec. 6, ’24. (5.)
    Impromptu Con Brio. S. E. P. July 25. (16.)
    Magician. S. E. P. Mar. 7. (18.)
    White Horse. S. E. P. June 20. (16.)

  ANDERSON, SHERWOOD. (1876– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    ***Meeting South. Dial. Apr. (78:269.)
    ***Return. Cen. May. (110:3.)

  ANDERSON, WILLIAM ASHLEY. (1890– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Bwana Who Laughed. Ev. Dec., ’24. (31.)
    Outcast. Hear. Jan. (50.)

  ANDREWS, CLARENCE EDWARD. (1883– .) (_See 1924._)
    *Harshest Thing in the World. Atl. July. (136:49.)

  ANDREWS, MARY RAYMOND SHIPMAN. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    His Only Love. Des. Sept. (5.)
    ***Passing the Torch. L. H. J. Oct., ’24. (3.)
    *Traffic Squad. Am. Aug. (21.)

  ANTHONY, JOSEPH. (1897– .)
    *Bandy Legs. F. F. Sept. (8.)
    ***Kill or Cure. Elks. July. (18.)

  ASCH, NATHAN. (1902– .) (_See 1924._)
    ***Gertrude Donovan. Tr. Dec., ’24. (2:608.)

  ATON, JAMES.
    *Apostle of Thunder. For. Sept. (74:430.)
    *Too Good to Be True. For. Mar. (73:359.)

  AVERY, STEPHEN MOREHOUSE. (_See 1924._)
    By the Sword. Hol. Oct. ’24. (7.)
    *Dragon Fly. L. H. J. Feb. (10.)
    Duck Luck. McCall. Nov., ’24. (12.)
    Forced Down. Red Bk. Apr. (84.)
    Gilded Pheasant. Col. July 18. (13.)
    Green Cynic. G. H. Nov., ’24. (64).
    Happy Hunting Ground. Ly. Jan. 17. (31.)
    In the Night. L. H. J. Nov., ’24. (26.)
    Incompatible Angels. Col. June 27. (5.)
    Lady in Jeopardy. Col. Sept. 5. (7.)
    Ticket to Timbuctoo. Ly. Feb. 21. (19.)


                                   B

  BABCOCK, EDWINA STANTON. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Browning in Parc Monceau. Harp. M. Feb. (150:287.)
    Dunelight. L. H. J. June. (16.)
    **Wavering Gold. Harp. M. Jan. (150:141.)

  BACON, JOSEPHINE DODGE DASKAM. (1876– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Lame Ducks. Red Bk. Feb. (60.)
    Roof. Chic. Trib. Feb. 1.
    Savage. Harp. B. April. (90.)
    Touchstone. S. E. P. Dec. 20, ’24. (8.)
    *Trunk. W. H. C. Dec., ’24. (27.)

  BAILEY, ETHEL.
    Young United Stateser. McC. July. (1:461.)

  BAILEY, IRENE TEMPLE. (_See 1919._) (_H._)
    Candle in the Forest. G. H. Dec., ’24. (28.)

  BALL, CALVIN.
    Office Reform. S. E. P. May 30. (20.)

  BALMER, EDWIN. (1883– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Beyond the Détour. Chic. Trib. April 19.
    Chance. Ly. Sept. 19. (16.)
    Enchantment. Des. April. (5.)

  BAMBERGER, THERON. (_See 1923._)
    Man Who Married a Dumbbell. Chic. Trib. March 15.

  BANNING, MARGARET CULKIN. (_See 1924._)
    *Blonde. Col. July 25. (15.)
    Bread-and-Butter Complex. Am. Nov., ’24. (12.)
    Don’t Go to Any Trouble. Am. May. (38.)
    Fortune Hunter. Del. Sept. (8.)
    **Great Club Woman. Harp. M. Nov., ’24. (149:744.)
    Honeymoon. Red Bk. May. (60.)
    King Cophetua. L. H. J. Oct., ’24. (24.)
    Little Puddle. Col. Feb. 7. (15.)
    New Blood. Red Bk. Nov., ’24. (72.)
    Old War Horse. S. E. P. April 25. (56.)
    On the Inside. S. E. P, Aug. 29. (33.)
    Poverty de Luxe. Red Bk. Oct., ’24. (58.)
    Silk Velvet. Red Bk. July. (64.)
    “That’s Politics.” Ly. April 25. (26.)
    This Little Model. Red Bk. Jan. (60.)
    Vote it Straight. S. E. P. Mar. 28. (48.)
    **Women Come to Judgment. Harp. M. Oct., ’24. (149:562.)

  BARI, VALESKA. (_See 1924._)
    Gift of Tongues. Atl. Sept. (136:389.)
    *Majority Rule. Atl. Jan. (135:78.)

  BARKER, ELSA. (_See 1924._)
    *Hard as Nails. Ev. Jan. (101.)
    Special Purpose. Des. Feb. (14.)
    **Veiled Goddess. Harp. M. Aug. (151:333.)

  BARNARD, LESLIE GORDON. (_See 1924._)
    *Snow in Spring. MacL. June 1. (16.)
    *Song of the Loo Foy. MacL. Jan. 15. (26.)

  BARNES, DJUNA. (1892– .) (_See 1924._)
    *Passion. Tr. Nov., ’24. (2:490.)

  “BARRINGTON, E.” (_See 1923._) (_See also_ BECK, L. ADAMS.)
    **Twin Wives. Atl. Nov., ’24. (134:634.)

  BARSTOW, RALPH.
    Hypostasia. Ev. Mar. (135.)
    Seeds of Greatness. Ev. Dec., ’24. (127.)

  BARTLETT, FREDERIC ORIN. (1876– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Bittersweet. W. H. C. June. (32.)
    Home Missions. Des. July. (8.)
    Old Folks at Home. S. E. P. Apr. 25. (12.)

  “BAWN, PHELIM.”
    For God and St. Patrick. Cath. W. Mar. (120:737.)

  BEACH, REX ELLINGWOOD. (1877– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Frenchy. Hear. Nov., ’24. (20.)
    Goose Woman. Hear. Oct., ’24. (42.)
    Man Who Overplayed His Hand. Hear. Jan. (18.)
    Michigan Kid. Hear. Dec., ’24. (64.)

  BEARD, WOLCOTT LE CLEAR. (1867– .) (_See 1923._) (_H._)
    *Dean of Rascals’ Row. Adv. Dec. 30, ’24. (66.)

  BEATTY, BESSIE. (1886– .) (_See 1924._)
    Servant of Love. Ly. Sept. 12. (12.)
    To-morrow Day. G. H. July. (78.)

  BEAUMONT, GERALD. (_See 1924._)
    Betty’s a Lady. Red. Bk. May. (80.)
    Great Dane. Red. Bk. Nov., ’24. (48.)
    Lady Who Played Fidèle. Red Bk. Feb. (31.)
    Making of O’Malley. Red Bk. Oct., ’24. (38.)
    Mulhall’s Great Catch. Red Bk. Jan. (50.)
    Racing Fool. Red. Bk. July. (50.)
    Said with Soap. Red. Bk. April. (52.)
    Whir of Wings. Red. Bk. March. (56.)

  BECHDOLT, FREDERICK RITCHIE. (1874– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    His Flesh and Blood. Red. Bk. June. (46.)
    Soft Side of Hate. Cos. Nov., ’24. (96.)
    Son-in-law with Sand. Cos. Oct., ’24. (72.)
    Tenderfoot Girl. Cos. Aug. (82.)
    Two Women of Delight. Cos. March. (80.)

  BECK, L. ADAMS. (_See also_ “BARRINGTON, E.”)
    **Hidden One. Atl. Oct., ’24. (134:520.)
    **Sea of Lilies. Asia. June. (25:483.)
    *V. Lydiat. Atl. Feb. (135:223.)

  BEEDE, IVAN. (1896– .) (_See 1924._)
    ***Haywired. Tr. Oct., ’24. (2:386.)
    ***Storm. Tr. Dec., ’24. (2:646.)

  BEER, THOMAS. (1889– .) (_See 1924._)
    *Appreciation. S. E. P. Feb. 7. (26.)
    Civilization. S. E. P. Oct. 18, ’24. (20.)
    *Joab. S. E. P. April 4. (18.)
    Love’s Simple Tale. S. E. P. Dec. 6, ’24. (24.)
    *Observation. S. E. P. May 16. (18.)
    **Secret Goddess. S. E. P. May 30, (45.)
    Sophistication. S. E. P. Oct. 11, ’24. (24.)

  BENCHLEY, ROBERT C.
    Gay White Peters. Red Bk. June. (96.)
    Let’s Go! Red Bk. Aug. (66.)
    Mark of Peters. Red Bk. Sept. (58.)
    One Way Traffic. Red Bk. March. (86.)
    Peters’ at the Play. Red Bk. April. (70.)
    Peters’ Try the Literary Life. Red Bk. May. (77.)
    They Asked for It. Red Bk. July. (72.)
    When the Peters Came to Town. Red Bk. Feb. (28.)

  BENDA, LILITH.
    Triangle. Hear. Oct., ’24. (72.)

  BENEFIELD, BARRY. (_See 1917._) (_H._)
    ***Blocker Locke. Cen. Feb. (109:441.)
    ***Fiery Sweetness in the Air. Col. April 11. (12.)
    ***Guard of Honour. Pict. R. July. (8.)

  BENET, STEPHEN VINCENT. (1898– .) (_See 1924._)
    Canned Salmon. Ev. March. (30.)
    Cigarettes. Ly. June 20. (14.)
    ***Harrigan’s Head. Ev. May. (19.)
    Jolly Roger. Ly. Nov. 1, ’24. (42.)
    Miranda, the Measles, and Marmaduke. Red Bk. Dec., ’24. (46.)
    Raveled Sleeve. Cos. Oct., ’24. (90.)

  BENET, WILLIAM ROSE. (1886– .) (_See 1917._)
    Late Mr. Waller and the Wow. Red. Bk. April. (73.)

  BERCOVICI, KONRAD. (1882– .) (_See 1924._)
    ***Beggar of Alcazar. Cen. Feb. (109:500.)
    **Devil of the Desert. Chic. Trib. Mar. 8.
    ***Flood. G. H. July. (34.)
    *Goats. Col. Sept. 26. (11.)
    ***Law of the River. G. H. May. (20.)
    ***Millstones. Pict. R. Nov., ’24. (14.)
    ***Steel Against Steel. G. H. Feb. (18.)
    ***Storm. Des. Jan. (5.)
    ***Tinsel. Col. Aug. 29. (5.)
    ***Vineyard. G. H. Jan. (20).

  BETTS, ALEXANDER.
    Post-Mortem. S. E. P. Aug. 15. (12.)

  BIDDLE, FRANCIS B. (1886– .)
    ***Aunt Jane’s Sofa. For. May. (73:679.)

  BIERCE, AMBROSE. (1842–1914.) (_See 1921._) (_H._)
    ***Inhabitant of Carcosa. (_R._) Gol. July. (2:99.)
    ***Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge. (_R._) Gol. Mar. (1:335.)

  BLACK, DOROTHY.
    Faithful Lover. L. J. H. Sept. (24.)

  BLACKMAR, BEATRICE. (_See 1924._)
    Westward--How? Ly. Feb. 14. (7.)

  BLOCK, RUDOLPH. _See_ “LESSING BRUNO.”

  BLODGETT, RUTH ROBINSON. (_See 1924._)
    Mrs. Renwick Plays the Game. Scr. May. (77:480.)

  BONNER, MARIETTA.
    **Hands. Opp. Aug. (3:235.)

  BORDEN, MARY.
    Meeting in Mayfair. Harp. B. June. (102.)

  BOUMPHREY, J. T.
    **Delicate Cedar. Atl. June. (135:763.)

  BOYD, THOMAS. (_See 1924._)
    *Kentucky Boy. Scr. Jan. (77:23.)
    *Little Gall. Scr. Feb. (77:133.)
    *Responsibility. Scr. March. (77:273.)
    **Uninvited. A. Merc. Nov., ’24. (3:270.)

  BRACE, BLANCHE. (_See 1924._)
    Exit Eglantine! Am. May. (31.)
    Miss Smith of New York. S. E. P. Aug. 1. (42.)
    Pink Dress. Ev. May. (136.)
    Shining Palace on the Sand. Am. Aug. (42.)
    Something Diff’rent. Am. Sept. (30.)

  BRACE, BLANCHE. (_See 1924._), _and_ CONNOLLY, VERA L.
    Just a Little Bit of Home. Am. Dec., ’24. (54.)

  BRACKETT, CHARLES. (1892– .) (_See 1924._)
    Father’s Day. S. E. P. July 4. (14.)
    Tenth-Word Love. S. E. P. Jan. 10. (6.)

  BRADY, MARIEL. (_See 1922._)
    Autograph Album. G. H. Oct., ’24. (68.)
    Eyes of Argus. Hol. May. (16.)

  BRECHT, HAROLD W.
    **Two Heroes. Harp. M. Sept. (151:478.)

  BRENT, ROBERT WILLIAM.
    Doctor Winkleman. Oracle. March. (1:9.)

  BRETHERTON, VIVIEN R. (_See 1924._)
    Wind Harp. McCall. Feb. (13.)

  BRIGGS, ELLIS O. (_See 1924._)
    Quiet Turkish Evening with Geraldine. Col. Oct. 11, ’24. (5.)
    *Shah is Dead: Checkmate. Ev. Jan. (43.)

  BRINIG, MYRON.
    **Fear God and Take Your Own Part. Pict. R. June. (5.)

  BRIRY, MALCOLM.
    Little Drops of Water. Ev. Sept. (25.)

  BROOKS, GEORGE S. (_See 1924._)
    Comedy Comet. McC. July. (1:375.)
    *Pete Retires. Scr. Dec., ’24. (76:645.)

  BROOKS, JONATHAN. (_See 1924._)
    Bright Work. Col. Oct. 18, ’24. (8.)
    Brothers under the Pigskin. Col. Nov. 22, ’24. (19.)
    Half-a-Stroke Heywood. Ev. Sept. (77.)
    His Son’s Dad. Ev. Nov., ’24. (47.)
    Jack O’Lantern. Ly. Aug. 15, (48.)
    Runnin’ Fool. Am. Nov., ’24. (52.)
    Three-Laigged Hoss. Ev. June. (59.)
    True Bills. Col. Dec. 6, ’24. (17.)
    Water Bucket Baby. Am. Sept. (54.)
    Weep no Mo’, Mah Lady. Col. Dec. 27, ’24. (15.)

  BROOKS, WINN.
    *Sixteen Fathoms Deep. Col. June 27. (9.)

  BROWN, ALICE. (1857– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Piece of a Dream. W. H. C. Jan. (7.)

  BROWN, BERNICE. (1890– .) (_See 1924._)
    Letter. Red. Bk. Oct., ’24. (77.)
    Persian Apple Sauce. L. H. J. Aug. (10.)
    Why Girls Leave Rome. L. H. J. March. (12.)

  BROWN, KATHARINE HOLLAND. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Chivalry. Outlook. (N. Y.) Aug. 19. (140:561.)

  BROWN, KENNETH IRVING. (1896– .)
    ***Christmas Guest. Atl. Dec., ’24. (134:797.)

  BROWN, ROYAL. (_See 1924._)
    All the Symptoms But One. Ly. Nov. 7, ’24.
    Among the Idle Rich. Hear. Oct., ’24. (64.)
    Engagements are Like That. Des. Oct., ’24. (5.)
    Everybody Lies. Des. May. (8.)
    Girl with the Pay-Roll. Cos. March. (81.)
    Inevitable Clinch. Cos. Aug. (68.)
    Love at First Sight. Hear. Nov., ’24. (40.)
    Love is Blind. Hear. Jan. (36.)
    Love Makes Gamblers of Us All. Cos. June. (62.)
    Should a Body Kiss a Body. Hear. Feb. (58.)
    So This is Love. Cos. July. (104.)
    When a Girl Needs a Friend. Cos. Sept. (104.)

  BROWNE, R. K. G.
    Fruitful Visit. G. H. May. (54.)

  BRUBAKER, HOWARD. (1892– .) (_See 1922._) (_H._)
    Connie Makes the Grade. Red Bk. Feb. (50.)
    Connie’s Double Life. Red Bk. Mar. (76.)
    Conquering Connie. Red Bk. Jan. (74.)
    Soiled Wings. W. H. C. April. (13.)

  BRYSON, LYMAN LLOYD. (1888– .) (_See 1918._)
    **Cyprian. Atl. Nov., ’24. (134:603.)

  BUCHANAN, ROSEMARY.
    *Between Trains. Cath. W. Sept. (121:768.)

  BUNNER, HENRY CULVER. (1855–1896.) (_See 1920._) (_H._)
    **Hector. (_R._) Gol. Jan. (1:129.)
    **Zenobia’s Infidelity. (_R._) Gol. May. (1:731.)

  BURANELLI, PROSPER. (_See 1924._)
    *White Pigeon. Ev. Mar. (150.)

  BURKE, MORGAN. (1886– .) (_See 1924._)
    Next Time a Lion. Ly. Oct. 25, ’24. (37.)

  BURLINGAME, ROGER.
    Bachelors on Horseback. Scr. April. (77:405.)

  BURNET, DANA. (1888– .) (_See 1924._)
    Breakfast with Bettina. S. E. P. June 20. (12.)
    Child. S. E. P. Aug. 8. (12.)
    Fine Feathers. Red Bk. March. (33.)
    Pinwheel Age. Cos. Oct., ’24. (32.)
    Rose-covered Cottage. Col. June. 13. (18.)
    *Technic. S. E. P. May 16. (14.)
    Those High-Society Blues. S. E. P. May 23. (8.)
    Underground Romance. Ly. Oct. 11, ’24. (8.)
    Wings. Ly. Dec. 27, ’24. (5.)

  BURT, KATHERINE NEWLIN. (1882– .) (_See 1924._)
    Fair Exchange. Red Bk. Nov., ’24. (52.)
    Intruder. Cos. Jan. (73.)
    Loneliest Man Alive. Cos. Feb. (46.)
    Outlaw’s Daughter. Cos. May. (83.)
    Swan’s Mate. Cos. Sept. (76.)

  BURT, MAXWELL STRUTHERS. (1882– .) (_See 1924._)
    ***Beauty and the Blantons. McCall. June. (7.)
    *“You are All Pardoned.” Pict. R. Sept. (14.)

  BURT, WILL. (_See 1922._)
    **Compensation. Mid. Feb. 1. (11:57.)

  BURTIS, THOMSON. (_See 1924._)
    ***Man-made Mutiny. Am. B. Sept., ’24.

  BUTLER, ELLIS PARKER. (1869– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Bum’s Rush. S. E. P. Dec. 6, ’24. (32.)
    *Dog Wanted: Male. Del. Jan. (5.)
    Fenderton Roper, Pressman. Ly. Feb. 28. (14.)
    *Fragrance of Lilacs. Del. May. (7.)
    *Good Sport. S. E. P. Nov. 22, ’24. (16.)
    ***Idealist. Book. (N. Y.) March. (61:13.)
    Mascot. S. E. P. May 23. (42.)
    Organizing Grandpa. L. H. J. June. (24.)
    Second Husband. W. H. C. Aug. (25.)
    Telling Jedbury. S. E. P. Sept. 5. (10.)

  “BYRNE, DONN.” (BRYAN OSWALD DONN-BYRNE.) (1888– .) (_See 1924._)
        (_H._)
    ***Blue Waves of Tory. Pict. R. June. (8.)
    *Certain Regrettable Occasion. Harp. B. July. (90.)
    *County People. Pict. R. July. (5.)
    *Fair Girl of Wu. Pict. R. April. (14.)
    *Green Eyes. Pict. R. Jan. (14.)
    *In Praise of James Carabine. S. E. P. May 9. (3.)
    *Pipes o’ Glory. Col. Mar. 21. (7.)
    *Supreme Sacrifice. Macf. Oct., ’24. (49.)


                                   C

  CABELL, JAMES BRANCH. (1879– .) (_See 1923._) (_H._)
    ***Above Paradise. A. Merc. Feb. (4:143.)
    ***Mathematics of Gonfal. Cen. Aug. (110:387.)

  CAFFREY, A. A.
    John A. S. E. P. May 23. (22.)

  CALLOWAY, ARTEMUS S. (_See 1924._)
    Uncle Titus. Hol. Oct., ’24. (13.)

  CAMERON, ANNE. (_See 1924._)
    Cherchez la Femme. S. E. P. July 11. (18.)
    Gramp. S. E. P. Feb. 21. (19.)
    There’s No Justice. S. E. P. Dec. 27, ’24. (10.)

  CAMPBELL, EVELYN. (_See 1924._)
    Splurge. McCall. Nov., ’24. (20.)

  CAMPBELL, LILLIAN HANKINS.
    Missionary. Cath. W. Mar. (120:792.)

  CANFIELD, DOROTHY. (DOROTHEA FRANCES CANFIELD FISHER.) (1879– .)
        (_See 1923._) (_H._)
    **Cage. Book. (N. Y.) Dec., ’24. (60:392.)

  CARNE, MARY AMELIA. (_See 1922._)
    David Giddings, Conqueror. Cath. W. June. (121:300.)

  CARSON, SAM. (_See 1924._)
    Both in the Money. Ev. Dec., ’24. (87.)
    Ex-Has-Been. Ev. Nov., ’24. (121.)
    Ran Second. Ev. Oct., ’24. (122.)
    Squirrel-Teeth. Ev. Jan. (168.)

  CARSTAIRS, ELIZABETH NAIL.
    Rich Man’s Son. Scr. Nov., ’24. (76:485.)

  CARVER, ADA JACK. (_See 1917._)
    ***Redbone. Harp. M. Feb. (150:257.)

  CARY, LUCIAN. (1886– .) (_See 1924._)
    “I Guess You’d Better Do Your Stuff.” S. E. P. May 16. (24.)
    Neither Innocent nor a Bystander. Ev. Feb. (21.)
    New Yorker in the Sticks. Col. Mar. 7. (17.)
    Once at Pluma Gogg’s. W. H. C. Nov., ’24. (27.)
    Sporting Thing to Do. Ev. Mar. (89.)
    Story for Fathers. Col. June 20. (5.)
    White Flannels. S. E. P. June 27. (20.)

  CASTLE, EVERETT RHODES. (_See 1924._)
    Held Up. S. E. P. May 23. (14.)
    Sharpest Man in Willowville. S. E. P. June 13. (38.)

  CASTLEMAN, SAMUEL.
    Clothes Competition. Chic. Trib. Jan. 11.

  CHAMBERLAIN, GEORGE AGNEW. (1879– .) (_See 1924._)
    *Jarrad, Last of the Pineys. S. E. P. May 30. (5.)
    Pillbeck and Eggs. S. E. P. Jan. 24. (20.)
    Pillbeck and Pillbeck. S. E. P. Dec. 27, ’24. (8.)

  CHAMBERS, ROBERT W. (1865– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Girl in Golden Rags. McCall. Nov., ’24. (17.)
    Grey Iris. McCall. Jan. (13.)
    Reversion. McCall. Dec., ’24. (18.)

  CHANDLER, JULIA.
    *Ninth Coleman. Des. Dec., ’24. (14.)

  CHAPMAN, ELISABETH COBB.
    Drama for Lunch. Ly. May 16. (24.)
    Golf Bride. Ly. Oct. 25, ’24. (59.)
    Mathilde is Different. Cos. July. (98.)

  CHAPMAN, FREDERICK.
    One Cocker Spaniel Going North. W. H. C. Aug. (12.)

  CHILD, MAUDE PARKER.
    Romance. S. E. P. Sept. 19. (18.)

  CHILD, RICHARD WASHBURN (1881– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Cat. Des. Nov., ’24. (5.)
    *Donna Quixote. Des. Dec., ’24. (8.)
    For the Woman. Cos. Sept. (94.)
    Her Two Men. S. E. P. Jan. ’24. (10.)
   *No Knowing Why. Des. Mar. (8.)

  CHILDS, MARQUIS W.
    Roomer. I. L. M. May. (21.)

  CHITTENDEN, GERALD. (_H._)
    *Mrs. Riddle. Scr. Sept. (78:243.)

  CLARAGE, ELEANOR.
    Anniversary. A. Merc. June. (5:169.)

  CLARK, EMILY. (MRS. EDWIN SWIFT BALCH.) (_See 1924._)
    *Chocolate Sponge. A. Merc. June. (5:160.)

  CLARK, VALMA. (_See 1924._)
    **Devil’s Third Horn. Col. Feb. 28. (18.)
    *Drive. Col. July 18. (17.)
    ***“Service.” Scr. Oct., ’24. (76:356.)
    Substitute. Hol. Dec., ’24. (12.)
    *Superstition. Hol. Oct., ’24. (14.)
    **Woman of No Imagination. Scr. Aug. (78:129.)

  CLAUSEN, CARL. (_See 1923._)
    Shelled. Chic. Trib. Jan. 18.

  CLEMENS, SAMUEL LANGHORNE. _See_ “TWAIN, MARK.”

  “CLOSE, UPTON.” _See_ HALL, JOSEPH W.

  COATSWORTH, ELIZABETH J.
    *Man Who Loved Wild Animals. D. D. Nov.–Dec., ’24. (7:43.)

  COBB, IRVIN SHREWSBURY. (1876– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    **Ace in the Hole. Cos. Aug. (40.)
    *Black Duck. Cos. July. (34.)
    *Button, Button.... Cos. Dec., ’24. (20.)
    **Coyote in Central Park. G. H. July. (22.)
    **Dead Line. Cos. Feb. (24.)
    *Hands Across the Sea. Harp. B. Aug. (45.)
    ***Nobody Sees the Waiter’s Face. Cos. Jan. (26.)
    ***One Block from Fifth Avenue. (_R._) Gol. May. (1:629.)
    *Parker House Roll. Cos. May. (64.)
    *Power of the Press. Cos. June. (34.)
    ***Principle of the Thing. Cos. April. (68.) MacL. March 15. (2.)
    ***Standing Room Only. Cos. Oct., ’24. (16.)
    **We of the Old South. Cos. Nov., ’24. (24.)

  COHEN, BELLA. (“BELLA NEYO.”) (1899– .) (_See 1924._)
    ***Laugh. Calendar. July. (1:387.)
    ***Yetta’s Feller. Macf. Oct., ’24. (21.)

  COHEN, OCTAVOS ROY. (1891– .) (_See 1924._)
    Barberous. S. E. P. March 14. (22.)
    Bathing Booty. S. E. P. Oct. 4, ’24. (10.)
    Blackmale. S. E. P. Jan. 17. (14.)
    Blue Steel. Red Bk. Aug. (56.)
    Bounce of Prevention. S. E. P. Sept. 19. (20.)
    **Case Ace. S. E. P. Feb. 28. (41.)
    Damaged Good. S. E. P. July 18 (14.)
    Fly and the Ointment. Chic. Trib. Nov. 23, ’24.
    Inside Inflammation. S. E. P. Nov. 1, ’24. (24.)
    Interlude. Ev. Nov., ’24 (59.)
    Jazz You Like It. S. E. P. Aug. 8. (14.)
    Lion and the Uniform. S. E. P. Jan. 31. (14.)
    Little Child. S. E. P. Oct. 18, ’24. (24.)
    Miss Directed. S. E. P. Apr. 11. (20.)
    On With the Lance. S. E. P. May 2. (24.)
    Prologue. Des. May. (10.)
    Silent Call. G. H. May. (32.)
    To Love and to Honour. Col. Sept. 12. (5.)
    Union Suit. Chic. Trib. May 24.
    White Lights and Amber. S. E. P. Dec. 20, ’24. (33.)
    Write and Wrong. S. E. P., Mar. 7. (60.)

  COLLINS, CHARLES. (_See 1924._)
    Marvellous Marco. Chic. Trib. Nov. 30, ’24.

  COMFORT, MILDRED H.
    Water Gypsy. Ind. Jan. 3. (114:11.)

  COMFORT, WILL LEVINGTON. (1878– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Another’s Man’s Game. Ev. Sept. (9.)
    Damsel. Ev. June. (27.)
    Koot Hoomi. S. E. P. Jan. 10. (10.)
    Merv--. S. E. P. Aug. 29. (8.)
    Outside of a Horse. S. E. P. July 11. (12.)
    Thirty Years Late. S. E. P. April 18. (8.)

  CONDON, FRANK. (_See 1924._) (_H._).
    Best Minds. S. E. P. May 2. (30.)
    Big Names. S. E. P. April 4. (28.)
    Brownie. S. E. P. Nov. 29, ’24. (14.)
    Chronic and Incurable. Col. Nov. 1, ’24. (5.)
    Directed by Andy. S. E. P. Dec. 20, ’24. (16.)
    Finders Keepers. S. E. P. Dec. 27, ’24. (14.)
    If and When. Ly. May 16. (46.)
    Little Drops of Water. S. E. P. April 25. (18.)
    Minor Changes. S. E. P. June 6. (26.)
    Mud. S. E. P. Sept. 12. (26.)
    New Stuff. S. E. P. Nov. 8, ’24. (10.)
    Poor Old Pete. Ly. Mar. 7. (27.)
    Red Coat. S. E. P. May 30. (18.)
    Small Thanks. Ly. March 21. (28).
    Voice of Spring. Ly. May 31, ’24. (8.)

  CONNELL, CATHERINE.
    Widow’s Mite. Hol. Feb. (15.)

  CONNELL, RICHARD. (1893– .) (_See 1924._)
    *Big Things--in a Bigger Way. Ly. Jan. 3. (13.)
    Coils of Chance. Red Bk. Jan. (71.)
    Cold-Blooded. Am. Oct., ’24. (47.)
    First Gentleman of the Land. S. E. P. May 9. (10.)
    Fourth Degree. S. E. P. June 6. (12.)
    Great Unopen Spaces. Ly. Dec. 20, ’24. (11.)
    Higher Salesmanship. S. E. P. Mar. 21. (15.)
    Law’s an Ass. Red Bk. Dec., ’24. (33.)
    Percentage. 000. Col. Apr. 25. (18.)
    Schools of Success. S. E. P. Feb. 21. (18.)
    Second Egg. S. E. P. Oct. 25, ’24. (16.)
    *Six Reasons Why. Cen. April. (109:756.)
    Spring Flow’rets. Harp. B. Feb. (78.)
    Sssssssssshhhh! S. E. P. Dec. 13, ’24. (5.)
    Umps. Ly. Oct. 4, ’24. (57.)
    Unbeatable Bettle. S. E. P. Sept. 5. (20.)
    Yatz-Gatz. S. E. P. Feb. 7. (13.)

  CONNOLLY, JAMES BRENDON. (1868– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Driving Home from George’s. S. E. P. July 4. (17.)
    *Home Lights. Red Bk. Apr. (37.)
    *In the Wake of the Gale. S. E. P. Aug. 8. (18.)
    *Rough-Water Captains. S. E. P. June 27. (7.)
    *Shoal Water. S. E. P. Aug. 1. (11.)
    **Trawler. (R.) Ev. Aug. (108.)

  CONNOLLY, MYLES.
    Simpleton. Cath. W. Dec., ’24. (120:306.)

  CONNOLLY, VERA L. _See_ BRACE, BLANCHE, _and_ CONNOLLY, VERA L.

  COOK, FRANCIS C.
    **Dreamer. Ind. Oct. 11, ’24. (113:255.)

  COOPER, ANICE PAGE.
    *June and the Prophet. Strat. Jan. (4:63.)

  COOPER, COURTNEY RYLEY. (1886– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Big Boy. Ev. Aug. (9.)
    Chinook. Red Bk. May. (70.)
    King of Strawberry Flats. Ly. May 24, ’24. (48.)
    One Woman’s Man. Red Bk. July. (84.)
    When Death Stalked. Red Bk. Aug. (69.)

  CORLEY, DONALD. (_See 1923._)
    **Legend of the Little Horses. Pict. R. Oct., ’24. (12.)
    ***Manacles of Youth. Harp. M. Dec., ’24. (150:85.)

  CRAM, MILDRED R. (1889– .). (_See 1924._)
    *Captain Sparhawk. Blue Bk. Dec. ’24. (16.)
    *Paris--France. Chic. Trib. Aug. 16.
    Very Old Amber. Harp. B. Feb. (60.)
    Waters under the Bridge. Harp. B. May (74.)

  CRANE, CLARKSON. (_See 1922._)
    **Renewal. Dial. March. (78:208.)

  CRANE, FRANCES.
    **Visit. Mid. Sept. (11:263.)

  CRANE, STEPHEN. (1870–1900.) (_See 1916._) (_H._)
    ***Grey Sleeve. (R.) Gol. Jul. (2:5.)
    ***Open Boat. (R.) Ev. Aug. (96.)

  CRAWFORD, CHARLOTTE HOLMES. (_See 1917._)
    *Point of Recoil. Scr. Oct., ’24. (76:404.)

  CRICHTON, KYLE S.
    *For Sale: Med. Show. Scr. Feb. (77:176.)

  CROSS, RUTH. (_See 1924._)
    Stuff of Youth. Am. June. (29.)

  CROWELL, CHESTER T. (1888– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    **Bringer of Grist. Cen. Sept. (110:526.)
    *Crime of Crimes. Cen. March. (109:696.)
    ***Devil Born in Them. A. Merc. Jul., ’24. (2:275.)
    Fair-Weather Love. Cos. June. (100.)
    Fight. S. E. P. Aug. 1. (18.)
    ***Giovanni and the Goddess. S. W. Jan. (34).
    *Hicks, D. D. S. S. E. P. Mar. 28. (41.)
    ***Mary Fisher’s Philosophy. A. Merc. May. (5:46.)
    ***Pariah. A. Merc. Aug., ’24. (2:481.)
    *Ruins of Empire. Am. March. (39.)
    **Very Wicked Man. Hear. Dec., ’24. (20.)
    Women, Women, Women. Col. July 4. (13.)

  CURTISS, PHILIP EVERETT. (1885– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Penny in the Wide. L. H. J. Sept. (16.)


                                   D

  DALE, VIRGINIA. (_See 1924._)
    Love Shy. Red Bk. Oct., ’24. (68.)
    Men are So Different. Red Bk. Mar. (53.)
    Some Men Stay Single. Cos. Sept. (73.)
    Things. Red Bk. Sept. (66.)

  DALRYMPLE, C. LEONA. (_See 1919._) (_H._)
    Age. Hol. Aug. (8.)

  DANA, FRANCIS. (1866– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Tripper Trap. S. E. P. July 25. (18.)

  DARGAN, OLIVER TILFORD. (_See 1924._)
    *Serena Takes a Boarder. Rev. Apr. (5:10.)

  DAVENPORT, WALTER.
    Geoffrey John of Amiens. Ly. May 23. (33.)
    Señor Roams with Rooney. Ly. Oct. 11, ’24. (29.)
    Society. Ly. Sept. 12. (25.)
    Tough. Ly. Mar. 21. (37.)

  DAVIES, OMA ALMONA. (_See 1924._)
    Bargain with Fate. G. H. Feb. (76.)
    Eben and Ezer. S. E. P. June 13. (18.)
    Friend fur Apple Butter. S. E. P. May 9. (18.)
    Ground for Divorcement. S. E. P. Apr. 11. (34.)
    Hind End Frontmost. S. E. P. Sept. 12. (30.)
    Just a Way to Go. G. H. Aug. (84.)
    Kind fur Kind. S. E. P. Oct. 4, ’24. (20.)
    Ten Cents a Cone Yet. S. E. P. July 4. (8.)
    Two Girls to Oncet. S. E. P. Dec. 6, ’24. (12.)

  DAVIS, AARON. (_See 1924._)
    Bull of Bashan. S. E. P. May 9. (24.)
    Kitchen Cabinet. S. E. P. May 30. (39.)
    Opalescent Bore. S. E. P. Mar. 28. (17.)
    Polka-Dot Hounds. S. E. P. Oct. 25, ’24. (42.)
    Simon Called Peter. S. E. P. Mar 7. (20.)

  DAVIS, ELMER HOLMES. (1890– .) (_See 1924._)
    Jeshurun. Col. Jan. 31. (10.)
    No Girl. Col. Jan. 3. (8.)

  DAVIS, LOUISE TAYLOR.
    Hour at Tranquillity. Des. June. (14.)

  DAVIS, MARTHA KING.
    Qualifying of Vivian. Hol. Feb. (12.)

  DAVIS, RICHARD HARDING. (1864–1916.) (_See 1918._) (_H._)
    **Consul. (_R._) Ev. July. (111.)
    ***Walk Up the Avenue. (_R._) Gol. Jan. (1:37.)

  DAY, LILLIAN. (_See 1923._)
    Brief-Case Men. Hol. Feb. (22.)

  DE BURGH, ELIZABETH.
    **Mrs. Buckle. Atl. Jan. (135:105.)

  DELAND, MARGARET WADE (CAMPBELL). (1857– .) (_See 1915._) (_H._)
    **Third Volume. (_R._) G. B. May. (1:702.)

  DELANO, EDITH BARNARD. (_See 1924._)
    (_See “H” under_ BARNARD _and_ DELANO.)
    **Face of the Waters. L. H. J. May. (12.)
    **Resurrection. L. H. J. July. (14.)
    Three Wise Men. L. H. J. Dec., ’24. (3).

  DE LEON, WALTER. (_See 1924._)
    Beautiful and the Dumb. Red Bk. Nov., ’24. (63.)
    Claudia and the Fired Man. Red Bk. Mar. (66.)
    Green Complex. Red Bk. Sept. (82.)
    Locke and Keyes. Hear. Dec., ’24. (32.)
    Prof. B. B.’s Mary. Ly. May 31, ’24. (49.)

  DELL, FLOYD. (1887– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    ***Hallelujah, I’m a Bum! Cen. June. (110:137.)
    Runaway. W. H. C. Oct., ’24. (15.)

  DERIEUX, SAMUEL A. (1881–1922.) (_See 1924._)
    Old Man Trouble. Col. Sept. 12. (20.)

  DETZER, KARL W. (_See 1924._)
    Red in the Devil’s Hair. Ev. Dec., ’24. (79.)
    *Landman. Col. Aug. 15. (28.)

  DEUTSCH, HERMANN BACHER. (_See 1922._)
    *Man who Did not Matter. Cos. July. (40.)
    Slunge. Col. Sept. 12. (7.)
    *Queen of the Turf. Col. July 25. (5.)
    Roughneck and the Lady. Cos. April. (80.)

  DE VOTO, BERNARD.
    Lesion. Guar. Dec., ’24. (4.)

  DEXTER, GAYNE.
    *Broadway Forever. Ev. Mar. (99.)
    Fiddling Fool. Ly. Nov. 8, ’24. (32.)
    Lulu--She Steals the Show. Ev. Feb. (72.)
    *Serpent of Lies. Cos. Aug. (64.)
    Shark Bait. Cos. Sept. (102.)
    Society Stuff. Ev. April. (143.)
    Star-Maker. Ev. Jan. (30.)

  DIAMANT, GERTRUDE.
    *Channa Makes Her Bed. Men. J. Feb. (11:1.)

  DICKENSON, EDWIN COLE. (_See 1918._)
    Jonesy Gets His Swim. Scr. April. (77:385.)

  DICKENSON, MAY FREUD. (_See 1924._)
    ***Mouse. A. Merc. July, ’24. (2:357.)

  DICKSON, HARRIS. (1868– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Jungle Woman. Red Bk. July. (68.)
    Talking Bird. S. E. P. Sept. 19. (14.)

  DICKSON, W. LEE. (_See 1924._)
    Fifty Miles from Nowhere. Ev. Oct., ’24. (36.)

  DINE, WARREN L. VAN. _See_ VAN DINE, WARREN L.

  DINGLE, AYLWARD E. (1874– .) (_See 1922._)
    ***Blow the Man Down. S. E. P. May 2. (18.)
    ***Bound for Rio Grande. Ly. Dec. 20, ’24. (38.)
    Hunchback of the Hesperus. S. E. P. Nov. 22, ’24. (35.)
    *Kelp. Adv. Sept. 30. (62.)
    Mayes. Ev. Mar. (37.)
    Skipper of the Titania. S. E. P. Feb. 7 (22.)
    Tarrible Swede. S. E. P. Nov. 8, ’24. (20.)
    They Builded a Ship Ly. Mar. 28. (15.)
    *Worth Their Salt. S. E. P. June 20. (20.)

  DIVINE, CHARLES. (1889– .) (_See 1924._)
    Conquerors of the City. Ev. April. (179.)
    Part-Time Hero. Hol. Aug. (20.)
    Shrinking Violet. Del. Sept. (7.)

  DOBIE, CHARLES CALDWELL. (1881– .) (_See 1924._)
    ***Arrested Moment. Rev. July. (28.)
    ***Elder Brother. Harp. M. Feb. (150:323.)
    ***Hands of the Enemy. Harp. M. March. (150:441.)
    *Wild Geese. Harp. M. June. (150:11.)

  DODGE, LOUIS. (1870– .) (_See 1923._)
    *Wentworth’s Masterpiece. Scr. Sept. (78:280.)

  DOREN, CARL VAN. _See_ VAN DOREN, CARL.

  DORRINGTON, ALBERT.
    Peter’s Pipe. Hol. Aug. (7.)

  DOUGLAS, MARJORY STONEMAN. (_See 1924._)
    Bird Dog in the Hand. S. E. P. Sept. 12. (6.)
    Green Mango Pie. S. E. P. April 18. (46.)
    Hat Named Horace. S. E. P. Oct. 18, ’24. (12.)
    Pineland. S. E. P. Aug. 15. (14.)
    Solid Mahogany. S. E. P. June 20. (24.)

  DOUNCE, HARRY ESTY. (_See 1924._)
    **Flaw in My Great-Uncle Amos. Col. Mar. 7. (10.)
    *Heroine. Col. Jan. 31. (5.)

  DOWNES, ANNE MILLER. (_See 1923._)
    Just Fifteen Minutes. Pear. (Am.) Oct., ’24. (29.)

  DOWNING, J. HYATT.
    **Closed Roads. Scr. Aug. (78:191.)

  DOX, JULIA C.
    Mission at Martin’s. Cath. W. Aug. (121:653.)

  DRAPER, RUTH.
    Three Generations in the Court of Domestic Relations. W. H. C.
        Nov., ’24. (23.)

  DREISER, THEODORE. (1871– .)(_See 1924._) (_H._)
    ***Glory Be! McGlathery. Pict. R. Jan. (5.)

  DUDLEY, WALBRIDGE.
    ***Harvest. Pear. (Am.) Feb. (9.)

  DUGANNE, PHYLLIS. (_See 1924._)
    Another Kind of Girl. Ly. April 4. (11.)
    Connie. L. H. J. Feb. (8.)
    Fed Up. Harp. B. July. (62.)
    *Heap Big Squaw! Charm. Feb. (14.)
    Judy Clubs the Ball. L. H. J. April. (12.)
    Nan is Diverted. Red Bk. Oct., ’24. (48.)
    Two from the Chorus. Harp. B. Sept. (68.)

  DUNN, JOSEPH ALLAN. (1872– .) (_See 1922._) (_H._)
    Dragon’s Breath. Chic. Trib. Mar. 1.
    Pearl of Amaru. Chic. Trib. Jan. 4.

  DUTTON, LOUISE ELIZABETH. (MRS. PARKER FILLMORE.) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Keys of Heaven. S. E. P. Aug. 29. (16.)

  DWYER, JAMES FRANCIS. (1874– .) (_See 1923._) (_H._)
    Sabri. W. H. C. June. (21.)
    Seven Turkeys from Hong Kong. W. H. C. Aug. (20.)
    *With Topgallants Set. Blue Bk. June. (1.)


                                   E

  EASTMAN, REBECCA LANE HOOPER. (1877– .)(_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Bureau Hunt. G. H. Sept. (24.)
    Fourth Miss Pelicoes. G. H. Oct., ’24. (32.)
    *Oh, That We Two Were Maying--Again! G. H. Mar. (26.)
    Primrose Frock. Des. Aug. (8.)

  EDWARDS, HARRY STILLWELL. (1855– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    ***Two Runaways. (_R._) Gol. Feb. (1:226.)

  ELDRIDGE, PAUL. (_See 1923._)
    *Fortune-Teller. Guar. Mar. (1:179.)
    *He Who was God. Dec., ’24. (3:230.)
    Tragi-Comedy. Rev. Oct., ’24. (4:367.)

  ELIOT, ETHEL COOK. (1890– .)
    *Maternal. For. June. (73:812.)

  ELKIN, MARCIA.
    What Every Sister Knows. W. H. C. May. (34.)

  ELLARD, GERALD.
    Lady Miriam’s Christmas Story. Cath. W. Dec., ’24. (120:355.)

  ELLERBE, ALMA MARTIN ESTABROOK. (1871– .), _and_ ELLERBE, PAUL LEE.
        (_See 1924._) (_See “H” under_ ELLERBE, PAUL LEE.)
    *Battle Axe. Col. Sept. 5. (20.)
    *Doors. Del. Feb. (11.)
    Pack Rat Springs the Trap. Col. Oct. 4, ’24. (16.)
    **Services Rendered. Col. Aug. 8. (12.)
    Sunshine, Fresh Air, and a View. W. H. C. Oct., ’24. (27.)
    **$2,000.00 Reward. Cos. Mar. (98.)
    *Woman Nothing Ever Happened To. W. W. Nov., ’24. (5.)

  ELLIOTT, JOHN L.
    Yippy. Cen. July. (110:292.)

  ELMALEH, LEON H. _See_ SOLIS-COHEN, JUDITH _and_ ELMALEH, LEON H.

  EMERY, STEUART M. (_See 1924._)
    Homer Becomes Himself. Hol. June. (14.)
    Wild, Wild Child. Ly. Jan. 31. (13.)
    With Interest to Date. Hol. May. (5.)

  EMMETT, ELIZABETH. (_See 1924._)
    Moon and Michael. Hol. July. (14.)

  ENGLAND, GEORGE ALLAN. (1877– .) (_See 1923._) (_H._)
    Half a Brick. S. E. P. June 6. (22.)

  ERSKINE, LAURIE YORK. (_See 1924._)
    Pictures. Ev. Nov., ’24. (28.)

  EVANS, IDA MAY. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Achilles Always Has His Heel. S. E. P. Nov. 8, ’24. (22.)
    Daughter of a Hawk. Red Bk. Sept. (78.)
    Little Devil. Red Bk. Aug. (52.)
    Man’s Money’s Worth. S. E. P. Nov. 29, ’24. (36.)
    Secret Room. Red Bk. June. (51.)
    Spendthrift. Hear. Feb. (50.)
    Su Sam Sa. Chic. Trib. July 19.
    We Knew Him When--. Cos. Aug. (72.)

  EVERMAN, PAUL. (_See 1924._)
    *Ashen-Yellow. A. W. Oct., ’24. (9.)


                                   F

  FAGIN, N. BRYLLION. (_See 1924._)
    ***Buttoned Up. Pear. (Am.) Feb. (48.)

  FANLET, GEORGE.
    Lie. Echo. Sept. (5.)

  FARAGOH, FRANCIS EDWARDS. (_See 1924._)
    *Bessie Goes Steady. Pict. R. Oct., ’24. (24.)

  FARIS, PHOEBE O’NEALL. (_See 1924._)
    Moon’s Laws. Des. April. (14.)

  FARNHAM, W. I.
    Professor Highbrow’s Mule. Hol. Sept. (14.)

  FARRAR, JOHN CHIPMAN. (1896– .) (_See 1922._)
    Greatest Lover. Ev. Feb. (152.)

  FERBER, EDNA. (1887– .) _(See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Classified. Cos. Nov., ’24. (16.)
    **Mother Knows Best. Cos. April. (28.)

  FERNALD, CHESTER BAILEY. (1869– .) (_See 1921._) (_H._)
    **Gentleman in the Barrel. (_R._) Gol. Mar. (1:325.)
    **Perhaps It Didn’t Matter. (_R._) Gol. Sept. (2:340.)
    ***Pot of Frightful Doom. (_R._) Gol. June. (1:806.)

  FIELD, EDWARD SALISBURY. (“CHILDE HAROLD.”) (1878– .) (_H._)
    Freedom First. S. E. P. May 30. (14.)
    Open Season. S. E. P. April 25. (16.)

  FINGER, CHARLES J. (1871– .) (_See 1924._)
    *Count of St. Germain. Dearb. Ind. May 30. (16.)
    *Edward Wortley Montague. Dearb. Ind. May 2. (16.)
    *“Romeo” Coates. Dearb. Ind. May 16. (16.)
    *Thomas Lodge. Dearb. Ind. June 27. (16.)
    *William Parsons, Esquire. Dearb. Ind. June 13. (16.)

  FISHER, DOROTHEA FRANCES CANFIELD. _See_ CANFIELD, DOROTHY.

  FISHER, RUDOLPH. (1897– .)
    ***City of Refuge. Atl. Feb. (135:178.)
    **Ringtail. Atl. May. (135:652.)

  FITZGERALD, FRANCIS SCOTT KEY. (1896– .) (_See 1924._)
    ***Absolution. A. Merc. June, ’24. (2:141.)
    **Adjuster. Red Bk. Sept. (47.)
    *Baby Party. Hear. Feb. (32.)
    Love in the Night. S. E. P. Mar. 14. (18.)
    *One of My Oldest Friends. W. H. C. Sept. (7.)
    **Our Own Movie Queen. Chic. Trib. June 7.
    **Pusher-in-the-Face. W. H. C. Feb. (27.)
    Sensible Thing. Ly. July 5, ’24. (10.)

  FITZGERALD, W. G. _See_ “PHAYRE, IGNATIUS.”

  FOLSOM, ELIZABETH IRONS. (1876– .) (_See 1924._)
    End of the World. Hol. Nov., ’24. (20.)
    *Miracle of Love. Macf. Dec., ’24. (12.)

  FORD, SEWELL. (1868– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Coots, S. E. P. Mar. 14. (16.)
    *Easing In with Egbert. S. E. P. Nov. 29, ’24. (32.)
    Enter Emil the Deuce. Ly. July 25. (5.)
    *Out and Back with Old Whit. S. E. P. Mar. 7. (28.)
    *Rusty and the Early Birds. S. E. P. Jan. 3. (35.)
    *Rusty and the Sob Sister. S. E. P. Oct. 25, ’24. (20.)
    *Rusty as a Runner-Up. S. E. P. Nov. 15, ’24. (20.)
    *Rusty Gives ’Em What They Want. S. E. P. Aug. 15. (16.)
    *Rusty Watches ’Em Wriggle. S. E. P. Mar. 21. (28.)
    *Tessie and the Little Sap. S. E. P. Mar. 28. (20.)
    *Tessie Mates Them Up. S. E. P. Sept. 26. (40.)
    *Tessie Works the Shift. S. E. P. May 16. (28.)
    *Trained Up With Chita. S. E. P. Jan. 17. (30.)
    Where Tessie Missed Out. S. E. P. June 6. (20.)

  FORD, TORREY.
    **Cap’n Quiller Listens In. Scr. July. (78:44.)

  FORMAN, WILLIAM S.
    F. O. B. the Bahamas. Ly. April 11. (5.)

  FOSTER, MAXIMILIAN. (1872– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Guardian Angel. S. E. P. Feb. 28. (6.)
    Sir Dub the Knight. S. E. P. Oct. 11, ’24. (14.)
    Three Out of Five. S. E. P. Feb. 21. (12.)

  FRASER, WILLIAM ALEXANDER. (1859– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Time is Money. S. E. P. Dec. 6, ’24. (20.)

  FREEDMAN, DAVID. (1898– .) (_See 1924._)
    *Elephantasm. Pict. R. Feb. (14.)
    **We Are Four. Pict. R. Dec. (28.)

  FREEMAN, MARY ELEANOR WILKINS. (1862– .) (_See 1923._) (_H._)
    ****The Shadows on the Wall. (_R._) Gol. July. (2:107.)

  FRIEL, ARTHUR OLNEY. (1885– .)
    Apples. S. E. P. Jan. 31. (39.)
    Blue Gold. S. E. P. Mar. 21. (38.)
    Thirty Days After Death. S. E. P. Nov. 29, ’24. (8.)

  FROST, MEIGS O. (_See 1924._)
    Hokum in the Heart. Col. Jan. 17. (8.)
    Ol’ Man Cap’n Blows Up. Col. Nov. 8, ’24. (10.)

  FULLERTON, HUGH STEWART. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Egg in the Shell. Ly. Aug. 1. (12.)
    Orders Is Orders. Ly. June 14, ’24. (27.)

  FURMAN, LUCY. (_See 1923._) (_H._)
    *Glass Window. Atl. Aug. (136:208.)
    *Little Lowizy. Atl. Sept. (136:347.)


                                   G

  GAER, YOSSEF. (_See 1924._)
    *Letter from America. Men. J. Nov.–Dec., ’24. (10:481.)
    *Matchmaker. Men. J. Nov.–Dec., ’24. (10:490.)
    *Shopping. Men. J. Nov.–Dec., ’24. (10:486.)

  GALE, ZONA. (1874– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    ***Dime. Cen. April. (109:730.)
    *Happy New Year. Del. Jan. (6.)
    He and She. Del. May. (10.)
    Himself. G. H. Sept. (72.)
    In the Lobby. Cen. July. (110:333.)
    Lovell’s Gilded Hell. W. H. C. May. (26.)
    Mother of the Unknown Soldier. Col. May 30. (5.)
    Thief in the Night. Del. Sept. (5.)

  GAREY, ROBERT B.
    Masterpiece. A. Merc. Oct., ’24. (3:149.)

  GARLAND, HAMLIN. (1860– .) (_See 1920._) (_H._)
    ***Among the Corn-Rows. (_R._) Gol. July. (2:88.)

  GATLIN, DANA. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Jack. S. E. P. July 18. (18.)
    My Fair Lady. Des. May. (14.)
    Only Once in a Lifetime. Col. Nov. 15, ’24. (15.)
    She Never Had a Beau. Col. Jan. 31. (14.)

  GELZER, JAY. (_See 1924._)
    Leaves in the Breeze. G. H. March. (78.)
    Lucky Little Boy. G. H. Sept. (44.)
    Playtime. G. H. May. (80.)
    Something Different. G. H. July. (40.)

  GEROULD, KATHARINE FULLERTON. (1879– .) (_See 1922._) (_H._)
    ***Army With Banners. Harp. M. Aug. (151:311.)

  GERRY, MARGARITA SPALDING. (1870– .) (_See 1922._) (_H._)
    Pending Litigation. Harp. M. July. (151:176.)

  GILBERT, MORRIS.
    “When a Man Marries.” Pict. R. April. (12.)

  GILKYSON, PHOEBE H.
    *Amateur. Harp. M. July. (902:142.)
    *Bird of Paradise. W. H. C. May (9.)

  GILKYSON, WALTER. (1880– .) (_See 1922._)
    ***Coward’s Castle. Atl. Oct., ’24. (134:479).
    Second Marriage. Scr. Sept. (78:297.)

  GILL, TOM.
    Delilah. Hear. Dec., ’24. (42.)
    South of Rio Grande. Hear. Nov., ’24. (72.)

  GILLMORE, INEZ HAYNES. _See_ IRWIN, INEZ HAYNES.

  GLASGOW, ELLEN. (1874– .) (_See 1923._)
    *Romance and Sally Byrd. W. H. C. Dec., ’24. (11.)

  GLASS, MONTAGUE MARSDEN. (1877– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *That’s the Way It Goes. Hear. Oct., ’24. (42.)

  GLENN, ISA URQUHART. (MRS. S. J. BAYARD SCHINDEL.) (_See 1924._)
    *As It Is in the Service. Am. April. (53.)
    Coffee-Cooler. Scr. Nov., ’24. (76:517.)
    **Tropical Heat and White Men. Scr. April. (77:360.)

  GOLDBECK, EVA.
    *Mike Cobb. Guar. Feb. (1:113.)

  GOLDMAN, RAYMOND LESLIE. (_See 1924._)
    Malowan. Pict. R. Sept. (12.)

  GOODHUE, STODDARD. (_See 1922._)
    Linoleum Trail. Ev. Jan. (91.)
    Subconscious Witness. Ev. Feb. (115.)

  GOODLOE, ABBIE CARTER. (1867– .) (_See 1922._) (_H._)
    Madness of Gamaliel Sevenoaks. Scr. Aug. (78:180.)

  GOODRICH, CASPAR FREDERICK, REAR ADMIRAL, U. S. N. (1847– .)
    *Bully of Barencas. Trident. Spring. (5.)

  GORDON, DON.
    *The Mirror. Am. H. May 15. (117:26.)

  GORDON, MARY R.
    **Wayfarers All. Scr. Feb. (77:167.)

  GRAEVE, OSCAR. (1885– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    ***Ferry Boat. Pear. (Am.) Feb. (27.)

  GRAHAM, DOROTHY. (_See 1924._)
    *Circus Day. Cath. W. Aug. (121:586.)

  GRANGES, HENBY FRANCIS. (_See 1923._)
    Jackstone Qualifies. Am. Oct., ’24. (53.)

  GRAY, DAVID. (1870– .) (_See 1919._) (_H._)
    *Mr. Carteret and His Fellow Americans Abroad. (_R._) Gol. Mar.
        (1:341.)

  GREEN, ELIZABETH.
    Independence. Hol. Mar. (19.)

  GREEN, HELEN. (1882– .) (_H._)
    *Making a Prince into a Good Sport. (_R._) Gol. Mar. (1:420.)

  GREEN, PAUL. (_See 1924._)
    ***Man Who Died at Twelve O’Clock. S. W. July. (43.)

  GREENE, J. H.
    **Flagellant of Farthing Rock. Ev. Feb. (85.) MacL. Jan. 15. (12.)
    On Cultivator Shoal. Adv. Aug. 20. (57.)

  GREENOUGH, WALTER.
    Gravel Forty. Col. Feb. 21. (14.)

  GREENWALD, TUPPER. (1902– .) (_See 1924._)
    Before He Gave Them Wheat.
    Mid. June 1. (11:209.)
    Hill. Mid. June 1. (11:197.)

  GREGG, FRANCES. (_See 1915._)
    ***Hunch-Back. Dial. July. (79:31.)

  GREY, ZANE. (1875– .) (_See 1923._) (_H._)
    Wolf Tracker. L. H. J. Nov., ’24. (6.)

  GROMER, BELLE BURNS. (_See 1924._)
    Dead Reckoning. Cos. Nov., ’24. (72.)
    **Man at the Crossroads. Cos. Jan. (34.)
    *Moth Man. Cos. Dec., ’24. (96.)
    *Woman from a Circus. Cos. Sept. (108.)
    **Woman Without a Heart. Cos. July. (88.)

  GUERNON, CHARLES. (_See 1923._)
    That Emmy. McCall. Mar. (9.)

  GUYOL, LOUISE HUBERT.
    *Service of Lights. Strat. Dec., ’24. (3:195.)


                                   H

  HAARDT, SARA. (1898– .) (_See 1924._)
    Paradox. Rev. Jan. (5:64.)

  HACKETT, FRANCIS.
    ***Unshapely Things. A. Merc. Aug. (5:415.)

  HAGEN, HERBERT J.
    Gesture. Echo. Mar. (7.)

  HALE, AGNES BURKE. (_See 1924._)
    Her Brother’s Keeper. S. E. P. Feb. 14. (14.)
    Judgment from Paris. S. E. P. Jan. 24. (14.)

  HALE, EDWARD EVERETT. (1822–1909.) (_See 1920._)
    ***Man Without a Country. (_R._) Ev. July. (99.)

  HALE, LOUISE CLOSSER. (1872– .) (_See 1922._) (_H._)
    *“Oh, New York! New York!” W. H. C. Jan. (9.)
    Once Aboard a French Canal Boat. L. H. J. Sept. (10.)

  HALL, HAZEL.
    **Boy Passes By. Mid. Apr. 1. (11:141.)
    *On a Park Bench. Mid. Apr. 1. (11:154.)
    Red Hat. Mid. Apr. 1. (11:156.)

  “HALL, HOLWORTHY.” (PORTER, HAROLD EVERETT.) (1887– .) (_See 1924._)
        (_H._)
    Bachelor in Biarritz. Cos. Sept. (62.)
    Holiday Love. Des. June. (5.)
    In Picardie. S. E. P. Nov. 29, ’24. (16.)
    Obolensky Pennon. S. E. P. Dec. 6, ’24. (8.)
    Treasure Hunt. Des. Sept. (12.)

  HALL, JAMES NORMAN.
    ***Forgotten One. Atl. Mar. (135:289.)

  HALL, JARVIS.
    The ladies of His Family. W. H. C. Sept. (20.)

  HALL, JOSEPH W. (“UPTON CLOSE.”) (_See 1916._)
    *Dyeing Vat. D. D. July. (8:204.)

  HALL, WILBUR J. (_See 1924._)
    Big-Hearted Bandit. Cos. June. (38.)
    Jeanette Takes It Easy. Am. Oct., ’24. (20.)
    *Three Old-Timers. Am. July. (20.)

  HALLET, RICHARD MATTHEWS. (1887– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Kitchen Democrat. S. E. P. May 30. (10.)
    Tame Crow. S. E. P. June 15. (14.)
    *Transient Woman. S. E. P. Jan. 31. (8.)
    **Winter Kill. S. E. P. June 27. (10.)

  HANSON, NELL.
    Enemy by Command. McC. Sept. (1:754.)

  HARDY, ARTHUR SHERBURNE. (1847– .) (_See 1922._) (_H._)
    ***Ambassador (_R._) Gol. July. (2:5.)

  HARRIS, FRANK MANN.
    Journal of Willie. S. E. P. Dec. 6, ’24. (10.)
    Willie Painter, Matchmaker. S. E. P. Aug. 22. (34.)
    Willie Painter, Strategist. S. E. P. Apr. 11. (44.)

  HARRIS, KENNETT. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Contented Soul. S. E. P. Mar. 21. (12.)
    Food of Love. S. E. P. Mar. 7. (24.) Jael. S. E. P. May 2. (22.)
    Next to Godliness. S. E. P. April 4. (16.)
    Straight and Narrow Path. S. E. P. Jan. 17. (40.)

  HART, FRANCES NOYES. (1890– .) (_See 1924._)
    *Happy Ending. McCall. Oct., ’24. (12.)

  HARTE, FRANCIS BRET. (1839–1902.) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    ***Brown of Calaveras (_R._) Gol. Jan. (1:119.)
    ***Passage in the Life of Mr. John Oakhurst. (_R._) Gol. Mar.
        (1:384.)

  HASTY, JOHN EUGENE.
    Born Unlucky. Hol. Oct., ’24. (18.)

  HAWTHORNE, NATHANIEL. (1804–1864.) (_See 1921._)
    ***Dr. Heidegger’s Experiment. (_R._) Ev. Sept. (95.)
    ***Virtuoso’s Collection. (_R._) Gol. July. (2:79.)

  HAY, JAMES, JR. (1881– .) (_See 1915._) (_H._)
    Fair Chance. Chic. Trib. May 17.

  HECHT, BEN. (1896– .) (_See 1923._)
    ***Lindro the Great. Ly. July 11. (9)
    Sentimentalist. A. Merc. Oct., ’24. (3:213.)

  HEFFERNAN, DEAN L. (_See 1922._)
    Sentenced to Six Months. Am. May. (51.)

  HELLMAN, SAM. (_See 1924._)
    Ebon Emu. S. E. P. Feb. 14. (20.)
    Homebodies. S. E. P. Jan. 3. (14.)
    Let ’Em Hit ’Em. S. E. P. May 2. (12.)
    Meet the Life. S. E. P. April 4. (50.)
    Mike Signs Off. S. E. P. July 11. (28.)
    Roaring Rabbit. S. E. P. April 18. (14.)
    Seven Hearts in San Sablo. S. E. P. Sept. 12. (16.)
    Sure Shouter. S. E. P. Dec. 20, ’24. (36.)

  HEMINGWAY, ERNEST. (_See 1924._)
    ***Cross-Country Snow. Tr. Dec., ’24. (2:633.)
    ***Doctor and the Doctor’s Wife. Tr. Nov., ’24. (2:497.)
    ***Mr. and Mrs. Elliot. Lit. R. Autumn-Winter. (9.)

  “HENRY, O.” (PORTER, WILLIAM SYDNEY.) (1867–1910.) (_See 1920._)
        (_H._)
    ***Caballero’s Way. (_R._) Ev. June. (113.)
    ***Handbook of Hymen. (_R._) Gol. May. (1:655.)
    ***Phonograph and the Graft. (_R._) Gol. Jan. (1:15.)
    ***Rathskeller and the Rose. (_R._) Gol. Feb. (1:175.)
    ***Roads of Destiny. (_R._) Ain. Sept. (49.)

  HEPBURN, ELIZABETH NEWPORT. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Blue Counterpane. Cos. Feb. (40.)

  HERFORD, OLIVER. (1863– .)
    Impossible Pudding. L. H. J. Dec., ’24. (24.)

  HERGESHEIMER, JOSEPH. (1880– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    **Merry Dale. McCall. April. (16.)

  HERRICK, GERTRUDE. (_See 1924._)
    *Passage. Echo. Aug. (1.)

  HESS, LEONARD L. (_See 1924._)
    *Eighth Wonder. Am. H. Aug. 21. (117:439.)

  HEYWARD, DUBOSE. (_See 1919._)
    *Crown’s Bess. For. Aug. (74:246.) Sept. (74:430.)

  HIBBEN, PAXTON. (1880– .)
    ***Young Man with Great Possessions. Col. April 11. (7.)

  HICKMAN, W. ALBERT. (_H._)
    **New Power (_R._) Gol. Aug. (2:149.)

  HILL, MARION. (MRS. CHARLES R. HILL.) (1870– .) (_See 1915._) (_H._)
    Time in Court. McC. June. (80.)

  HINES, JACK. (_See 1923._) (_H._)
    Gabe’s Ornery Kid. Ly. Nov. 29, ’24. (19.)

  HIRSCH, J. ALBERT.
    *Rosebush. Am. H. Oct. 31, ’24. (115:781.)

  HISE, ALICE VAN. _See_ VAN HISE, ALICE.

  HOLDING, ELIZABETH SANXAY. (1889– .) (_See 1924._)
    Another Blue Day. W. H. C. Sept. (23.)
    Long Night. L. H. J. Sept. (23.)
    *Marionette. Cen. Jun. (110:209.)
    Mrs. Prunes. W. H. C. May. (30.)

  HOLT, HENRY P. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Beachcomber. Chic. Trib. Oct. 5, ’24.
    Creeping Shadow. Ly. Jun. 6. (48.)
    On the Plinth. Ly. Aug. 22. (14.)

  HOLTON, EDITH AUSTIN.
    Silhouettes. Hol. Jun. (11.)

  HOPE, EDWARD.
    Almost a Gentleman. S. E. P. Feb. 28. (12.)
    Practically Perfect Copy. Col. May 23. (16.)

  HOPPER, JAMES MARIE. (1876– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *At the End of the Line. Col. Oct. 18, ’24. (15.)
    *Bianchetta. Col. Nov. 22, ’24. (10.)
    **Debts of John Goodwin. W. H. C. Mar. (21.)
    Father and Son. S. E. P. Oct. 25, ’24. (10.)
    *Juan Peralta. Col. Dec. 13, ’24. (15.)

  HORNE, JOHN.
    *How the Cobbler Married the Dey’s Wife. Asia. Oct., ’24. (24:773.)

  HORNE, W.
    Contrariwise. S. E. P. Oct. 11, ’24. (18.)

  HOSSFIELD, MARIAN.
    Afterglow. W. Tom. Apr. (110.)

  HOUSTON, MARGARET BELLE. (_See 1923._) (_H._)
    ***Gold Picayune. Pict. R. Aug. (13.)

  HOVEY, CARL. (1875– .) (_H._)
    Knight in Armor. Cos. Dec., ’24. (90.)

  HOVEY, PRISCILLA. (_See 1924._)
    Father Who Didn’t Understand. Am. Apr. (57.)
    Gift without the Giver. Am. Dec., ’24. (38.)

  HOWARD, SIDNEY. (1891– .)
    Likeness of Elizabeth. McCall. Nov., ’24. (6.)
    ***Such Women as Ellen Steele. Scr. Jan. (77:64.)

  HUGHES, LLEWELLYN. (_See 1924._)
    Running Fool. Ly. Jul. 25. (48.)

  HUGHES, RUPERT. (1872– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Average Husband. Hear. Jan. (14.)
    By Their Fruits Ye Shall Know. Red Bk. Aug. (80.)
    Daughter of Today. Cos. Aug. (58.)
    Every Boy. S. E. P. Sept. 5. (8.)
    Let X = Love. Cos. Apr. (100.)
    *Love and Nagasqua. McCall. Feb. (9.)
    Mr. Spendthrift and Mr. Tightwad. Cos. Mar. (28.)
    *News of No Importance. Col. Sept. 26. (22.)
    *Suspense. Ly. Feb. 7. (5.)

  HULL, ALEXANDER. (1887– .) (_See 1924._)
    Meanest Man in the County. Am. Apr. (48.)

  HULL, HELEN R. (_See 1924._)
    Overstuffed. Col. May 2. (7.)
    Summer Storms. Col. Aug. 22. (19.)

  HUMASON, SALLY. (_See 1924._)
    Friends. Col. Jan. 10. (22.)

  HUME, CYRIL.
    Street of the Malcontents. Red Bk. Feb. (23.)

  HURST, FANNIE. (1889– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Gold in Fish. Cos. Aug. (28.)
    **House of Men. Cos. Sept. (56.)

  HURSTON, ZORA NEALE.
    *Drenched in Light. Opp. Dec., ’24. (2:371.)
    *Spunk. Opp. June. (3:171.)

  HUSSEY, L. M. (_See 1924._)
    ***Conclusion. A. Merc. Dec., ’24. (3:451.)
    *Recompense. Mun. Mar. (84:289.)
    ***Reunion. Guar. Jan. (4.)

  HUSTON, MCCREADY. (_See 1924._)
    Dottie. Scr. Aug. (78:115.)
    **Immune. Scr. Dec., ’24. (76:598.)
    “Mr. Silverthorne, Please.” Red Bk. Jul. (95.)
    Shingle Bob. Red Bk. Jun. (70.)
    Wrath. Scr. May. (77:516.)

  HYDE, J. AMOND.
    *Toward Carcassonne. Cath. W. Oct., ’24. (120:52.)


                                   I

  IRWIN, INEZ HAYNES. (INEZ HAYNES GILLMORE.) (1873– .) (_See 1924._)
        (_See “H” under_ GILLMORE.)
     Irish Language. Ev. Jul. (42.)
    *Queens. McCall. May. (5.)

  IRWIN, WALLACE. (1875– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Shah’s Silver. Col. Sept. 26. (5.)

  IRWIN, WILL(IAM HENRY). (1873– .) (_See 1923._) (_H._)
    Cloudburst. Col. Mar. 14. (5.)
    Where the Treasure Lies. Cos. Feb. (78.)


                                   J

  JACKSON, CHARLES TENNEY. (1874– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Silk. Sh. St. Apr. 25. (99.)

  JAMES, HENRY. (1843–1916.) (_See 1921._) (_H._)
    ***Miss Gunton of Poughkeepsie. (_R._) Gol. Apr. (1:519.)

  JAMES, WILL.
    *Filling in the Cracks. S. W. Jul. (3.)
    *His Waterloo. Red Bk. Sept. (93.)
    *Ride ’Im, Cowboy! Red Bk. Aug. (84.)

  JAMESON, HAUTE TARKINGTON. (_See 1924._)
    *Pennsylvania Street Car, G. H. Dec., ’24. (52.)

  JANVIER, THOMAS ALLIBONE. (1849–1913.) (_See 1921._) (_H._)
    **Passing of Thomas. (_R._) Gol. Apr. (1:561.)
    ***Poodle of Mr. Gaillard. (_R._) Gol. Jul. (2:68.)

  JAVITZ, ALEXANDER.
    *Sholem. Am. H. Jan. 23. (116:339.)

  JAY, MAE FOSTER. (_See 1922._)
    Husbands and Wives. Des. Apr. (8.)

  JENKINS, WILL F.
    Kid. Ly. Sept. 26. (51.)

  JEWELL, EDWARD ALDEN. (1888– .) (_See 1923._)
    Poet Passes. Chic. Trib. Aug. 2.

  JITRO, WILLIAM C. G. (1890– .) (_See 1923._)
    ***Holiday. Lit. R. Spring. (37.)

  JOHNSON, AGNES C. _See_ WOLFF, WILLIAM ALMON, _and_ JOHNSON, AGNES C.

  JOHNSON, ARTHUR. (1881– .) (_See 1922._) (_H._)
    **Mrs. Eben Paul. Harp. M. Jan. (150:196.)

  JOHNSON, NUNNALLY.
    Death of an Infinitive Splitter. S. E. P. Sept. 5. (24.)
    Hearse Horse. S. E. P. Apr. 11. (16.)
    Hero. S. E. P. Mar. 14. (28.)
    Laughing Death. S. E. P. Apr. 25. (49.)
    Lovelorn. S. E. P. Mar. 28. (24.)
    Rollicking God. S. E. P. Oct. 11, ’24. (8.)

  JOHNSON, OWEN MCMAHON. (1878– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Collector. Del. Nov., ’24. (7.)
    For Benefit of Clergy. Red Bk. Nov., ’24. (38.)
    Girl Who Was Misunderstood. Del. Oct., ’24. (9.)

  JOHNSTON, CALVIN. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Agent at Showdown. Pop. Dec. 7, ’24. (154.)
    *Blood of the Brave. Pop. Feb. 20. (95.)
    *Boomer Outlaw. Col. Dec. 20, ’24. (15.)
    *Desperado Born. Col. Nov. 29, ’24. (15.)
    *Mail for Roaring River. Pop. Feb. 7. (146.)
    *Marty McCall’s Monument. Col. Mar. 28. (11.)
    *Stocking of Snow. Pop. Dec. 20, ’24. (129.)
    *Traveler’s Choice. Pop. Oct. 7, ’24. (105.)
    *Valentine Moon. Col. Feb. 14. (7.)

  JONES, EUGENE. (_See 1924._)
    Captain Jed’s Golden Rule. Col. Mar. 21. (10.)
    Rattler. Ly. Jan. 24. (40.)
    Seaworthy. Am. Feb. (21.)

  JORDAN, ELIZABETH GARVER. (1867– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Audacity Wins ‘Em. Ly. Feb. 28. (28.)
    Aurelia Cultivates Charm. Ly. Jun. 28, ’24. (14.)
    Dellingham’s Little Comedy. Chic. Trib. Jun. 21.
    John Arthur’s Number. Hol. May. (8.)
    Sally and Her Black Knight. Chic. Trib. Feb. 22.

  JORGENSEN, NELS LEROY.
    Clown Who Forgot to be Funny. Am. Jan. (42.)

  JORGENSON, R. K.
    Law of Nature. Ev. Apr. (154.)

  JOSSLYN, TALBERT. (_See 1924._)
    Emory in High. McC. Sept. (1:683.)


                                   K

  KAHLER, HUGH MACNAIR. (1883– .) (_See 1924._)
    Alive and Single. S. E. P. Dec. 13, ’24. (16.)
    Anachronism. S. E. P. Dec. 20, ’24. (14.)
    Bottom of the Well. S. E. P. Sept. 12. (18.)
    Exile. S. E. P. Oct. 11, ’24. (20.)
    Houses. S. E. P. Aug. 22. (8.)
    Jasmine. S. E. P. Jun. 13. (20.)
    Roman Law. S. E. P. Mar. 21. (22.)
    Stargazer. S. E. P. May 23. (12.)
    Stillburn Fashion. S. E. P. Feb. 28. (18.)
    Tether. S. E. P. Apr. 18. (24.)
    Unhappy End. S. E. P. Nov. 15, ’24. (16.)
    Vacation. S. E. P. May 9. (22.)

  KANDEL, ABRAHAM. (_See 1923._)
    *Grimace. Am. H. Apr. 3. (116:621.)
    *Pity. Men. J. Aug. (11:342.)

  KAY, GERTRUDE ALICE. (1884– .)
    Bunny Face and The Spirit of Christmas. L. H. J. Dec., ’24. (22.)

  KELLAND, CLARENCE BUDINGTON. (1881– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Also-Ran. Ly. May 24, ’24. (12.)
    Applied Germicide. S. E. P. Sept. 26. (16.)
    Breakfast. L. H. J. Jan. (8.)
    Call Boy. Ly. Jun. 6. (5.)
    Dinner. L. H. J. Mar. (24.)
    Luncheon. L. H. J. Feb. (20.)
    Not in the Scenario. Ly. Jan. 24. (8.)
    Scattergood Sums Up the Evidence. Am. Jul. (30.)
    Scattergood Takes a Flier in Human Nature. Am. Aug. (28.)
    Stage Carpenter. Ly. May 9. (11.)

  KELLEY, ELLSWORTH E. (_H._)
    Little Boy and His Pa. (_R._) McC. May. (1:109.)

  KEMPTON, KENNETH PAYSON. (1891– .) (_See 1923._)
    Bale. Chic. Trib. Mar. 29.
    Clear Havana. Col. Aug. 1. (15.)

  KERR, SOPHIE. (1880– .) (_See “H” under_ UNDERWOOD, SOPHIE KERR.)
    And on the Other Hand--. Pict. R. Oct., ’24. (14.)
    Featherheads. S. E. P. Jan. 10. (42.)
    Jeanne and Louise Were Friends. W. H. C. Jul. (14.)
    Mary Could Cook. L. H. J. Jun. (32.)
    No Man’s Gift. Del. Apr. (6.)
    Puddle Duck. S. E. P. Oct. 25, ’24. (12.)
    Tears. S. E. P. Mar. 21. (18.)
    Tempered Peace. W. H. C. Oct., ’24. (18.)
    Something Good. S. E. P. Aug. 15. (18.)

  KIELAR, WILLIAM J.
    Getting Rid of Macklin. McC. Sept. (1:720.)

  KILBOURNE, FANNIE. (“MARY ALEXANDER.”) (_See 1924._)
    *Battle of the Honeymoon. Am. Nov., ’24. (39.)
    Clinging Vine. Red Bk. Dec., ’24. (68.)
    Cynthia Comes Out. S. E. P. Apr. 4. (12.).
    Dulcie Gets into the Rough. Am. Jan. (8.)
    Education of Sally May. Col. May 23. (7.)
    Gossip. Am. Mar. (13.)
    Nancy Goes Romance Hunting. Am. Feb. (38.)
    Kathleen’s Mother. L. H. J. Aug. (8.).
    Twins! Am. Dec., ’24. (21.)
    Will Deals With the Trouble-Maker. Am. Sept. (21.)
    Will Keeps His Eye on the Ball. Am. Jul. (39.)
    Woman’s Place Is in the Home. S. E. P. Nov. 15, ’24. (28.)

  KILMAN, JULIAN. (1878– .) (_See 1923._)
    Fetters of Youth. Echo. Jul. (1.)
    Old Fumble Fingers. Echo. Mar. (1.)

  KING, WILLIAM BENJAMIN BASIL. (1850– .) (_See 1918._) (_H._)
    *Heaven. Cos. Dec., ’24. (82.)

  KIRK, R. G. (_See 1924._)
    Air Hose. S. E. P. May 9. (16.)
    Twenty-Third Degree. S. E. P. Oct. 18, ’24. (14.)

  KNAPP, ETHEL MARJORIE.
    Temptation. Strat. Jan. (4:12.)

  KNOWLTON, CLARKE. (_See 1924._)
    ***Bridegroom. Scr. Jun. (77:629.)
    ***Lost Story. Scr. Aug. (78:173.)

  KOMROFF, MANUEL. (1890– .) (_See 1924._)
    ***Beating of the Reeds. Guar. May-Jun. (1:314.)
    ***Grace of Lambs. Atl. Mar. (135:376.)
    ***How Does It Feel to Be Free. Atl. Sept. (136:329.)

  KREBS, ROLAND.
    Airy Adrienne Takes the Air. S. E. P. Sept. 5. (12.)
    Go West, Young Woman. S. E. P. Sept. 26. (52.)

  KUMMER, FREDERICK ARNOLD. (1873– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Diamond Cut Diamond. Ly. Dec. 13, ’24. (40.)
    Transaction in Pearls. Ly. Nov. 22, ’24.

  KYNE, PETER BERNARD. (1880– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Bluebird. Cos. Feb. (16.)
    Cappy Ricks and the Mystic Isles. Cos. Mar. (36.)
    Lonely Man of Pahang. Cos. May. (50.)
    Thoroughbreds. Cos. Sept. (50.)


                                   L

  LADD, FREDERIC P.
    Mr. Bulltaker’s Ladder. Hol. Apr. (15.)

  LANE, D. R. (_See 1924._)
    Illegal Attachment. Sun. Nov., ’24. (30.)

  LANE, ROSE WILDER. (1877– .) (_See 1924._)
    *The Blue Bead. Harp. M. Jun. (150:34.)

  LAPE, FREDERICK H.
    Mrs. McCumber. Col. May 9. (22.)

  LARDNER, RING. W. (1885– .) (_See 1923._) (_H._)
    ***Haircut. Ly. Mar. 28. (5.)
    **Love Nest. Cos. Aug. (52.)
    *Mr. and Mrs. Fix-It. Ly. May 9. (5.)
    *Women. Ly. Jun. 20. (5.)
    ***Zone of Quiet. Cos. Jun. (44.)

  LARSSON, GENEVIEVE. (_See 1924._)
    *Astrid and the Hill Folk. Pict. R. Dec., ’24. (12.)

  LATHROP, HARLEY P. (_See 1923._)
    Fightin’ Heart of a Mick. Ly. Nov. 22, ’24.

  LATIMER, MARGERY. (_See 1924._)
    *Possession. Echo. Feb. (5.)

  LAURISTON, VICTOR.
    Not Black, nor White, but Gray. Hol. Apr. (22.)

  LAWLOR, MARGRETTA SCOTT.
    *John O’Keefe, the Blacksmith. D. D. Apr. (7:123.)

  LAZARUS, SIDNEY F. (_See 1924._)
    Me and Hercules. S. E. P. Jul. 4. (18.)
    That Patterson Girl. S. E. P. May 23. (24.)

  LEA, FANNIE HEASLIP. (MRS. H. P. AGEE.) (1884– .) (_See 1924._)
        (_H._)
    Bon Voyage. G. H. Oct., ’24. (26.)
    Dusk to Dawn. G. H. Jan. (26.)
    Mr. Conway’s Femme. S. E. P. May 16. (8.)

  LEACH, A. R.
    **Captain Out of Etruria. Harp. M. Apr. (150:532.)

  LEE, ALICE LOUISE. (1868– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Ching Wing Adds Works to Faith. Hol. Jan. (26.)
    Ching Wing Diagnoses a Case. Hol. Nov., ’24 (23.)

  LEE, JENNETTE BARBOUR PERRY. (1860– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Loneliness of Peter Parrot. G. H. Jan. (36.)

  LEECH, MARGARET KERNOCHAN. (1893– .) (_See 1923._)
    Little White Village. Cen. Jul. (110:272.)

  LEFEVRE, EDWIN. (1871– .) (_See 1916._) (_H._)
    Brick. S. E. P. Jul. 18. (9.)

  LEFEVRE, FRANCES.
    **Victor--Who? Atl. Jul. (136:89.)

  LEHMAN, B. H. (1889– .)
    ***Sons. Harp. M. Jan. (150:169.)

  LEMMON, ROBERT S. (_See 1924._)
    Terry from Tenth. Hol. Apr. (7.)

  LENGEL, WILLIAM CHARLES. (1888– .) (_See 1924._)
    Pure Sentiment. McCall. Jan. (20.)

  LEON, WALTER DE. _See_ DE LEON, WALTER.

  “LESSING, BRUNO.” (RUDOLPH BLOCK.) (1870– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    “Contigo” Means “I’m Yours.” Cos. Feb. (100.)
    Dumplings for Two. Cos. Oct., ’24. (98.)
    Husband for Rosie. Cos. May. (104.)
    Jolly Good Fellow. Cos. Jul. (112.)
    Lapidowitz Spills the Beans. Cos. Aug. (112.)
    Peach of a Stenographer. Cos. Jun. (110.)
    Sadie Sows a Wild Oat. Cos. Mar. (110.)
    Who’s Boss Now! Cos. Nov., ’24. (69.)
    Wooing of Lindl. Cos. Jan. (100.)

  LEVIEN, SONYA.
    Gunwoman. Ev. Apr. (65.)

  LEVITAN, MORTIMER.
    Legerdemain. McC. May. (1:39.)

  LEWIS, ALFRED HENRY. (“DAN QUINN.”) (1842–1914.) (_H._)
    **Man from Red Dog. (_R._) Gol. Apr. (1:495.)

  LEWIS, MILDRED ALEXANDER. _See_ “ALEXANDER, SANDRA.”

  LHEVINNE, I.
    **Idyll of the Steppe. Am. H. Jan. 16. (116:309.)

  LIEBERMAN, ELIAS. (1883– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Semi-Nordic. Am. H. Apr. 10. (116:678.)

  LIGGETT, WALTER W.
    Guardian of the Virgin Gold. Col. Sept. 12. (11.)

  LINNELL, GERTRUDE.
    Transplanted. McC. Jul. (1:354.)

  LITSEY, EDWIN CARLISLE. (1874– .) (_See 1923._) (_H._)
    *James Parkway Comes Home. Ind. Feb. 14. (114:183.)

  LIVINGSTON, FLORENCE BINGHAM.
    Boy Who Jumped the Fence. Am. Sept. (43.)

  LOEB, ELENE D.
    *Empty Days. Am. H. Sept. 25. (117:635.)

  LONDON, JACK. (1876–1916.) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    ***House of Mapuhi. (_R._) Gol. Jun. (1:832.)
    ***Love of Life. (_R._) Gol. Feb. (1:165.)

  LONG, HANIEL. (_See 1923._)
    *Garden of Rosemonde. Mid. Jan. 15. (11:38.)
    *Highroad to the West. Mid. Jan. 15. (11:33.)
    *Introduction to a Revery. Mid. Jan. 15. (11:44.)

  LORING, EMILIE.
    Glycerine Tears. Del. Mar. (8.)

  LOVELACE, DELOS W. _See also_ LOVELACE, MAUD HART, _and_ LOVELACE,
        DELOS W. (_See 1924._)
    *Boot. C. G. May 2. (1.)
    *Country Queer. C. G. May 2. (8.)
    *Cutting Edge. C. G. Apr. 11. (6.)
    *Danny. C. G. Jul. 11. (6.)
    *Fiddlefoot. S. E. P. Jul. 18. (5.)
    *Pull-Away. C. G. Mar. 28. (10.)
    *Lucky Year. C. G. Feb. 7. (3.)
    *Inheritance. C. G. Dec. 20, ’24. (4.)
    *Sold. C. G. Aug. 1. (10.)
    *Swap. C. G. May 23. (10.)
    *Whip Hand. C. G. Jun. 13. (10.)

  LOVELACE, MAUD HART. (_See 1924._)
    *Carcassonne Flyer. Sun. Apr. (34.)
    Love’s Daily Dozen. Del. Aug. (3.)

  LOVELACE, MAUD HART, _and_ LOVELACE, DELOS W. (_See 1924._)
    *Carmelita, Widow. Cath. W. Oct., ’24. (120:12.)

  LOVEWELL, REINETTE. (_See 1923._)
    Hiram Turns Twenty-One. Hol. Apr. (11.)

  LOW, EMERSON.
    *Man Who Had Been Away. Scr. May. (77:503.)

  LOWELL, AMY. (1874–1925.) (_See 1924._)
    ***Conversion of a Saint. Book. (N. Y.) Oct., ’24. (60:139.)

  LUTHER, MARK LEE. (1872– .) (_See 1923._) (_H._)
    Incomplete Angler. W. H. C. Jul. (25.)
    Liberal Reward. W. H. C. Mar. (19.)
    Under New Management. Ly. Sept. 5. (51.)

  LYLE, EUGENE P., JR. (1873– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Holder of the Note. Chic. Trib. Nov. 2, ’24.


                                   M

  MABIE, LOUISE KENNEDY. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Prairie’s Double Chin. L. H. J. Feb. (16.)

  MACALARNEY, ROBERT EMMET. (1873– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Gone to Glory. Col. Feb. 28. (5.)
    Gunman’s Widow. Ly. June 7, ’24. (12.)

  MCBLAIR, ROBERT. (_See 1922._)
    Miss DeGraff’s Geranium. Pict. R. May. (10.)

  MCCARDELL, ROY LARCOM. (1870– .)
    Highboy and His Hannah. S. E. P. Dec. 6, ’24. (30.)

  MCCARTER, MARGARET HILL.
    Candle in the Window. McCall. Dec., ’24. (10.)

  MCCLELLAND, MARION.
    Not on the Bill. Col. Oct. 4, ’24. (14.)

  MCCLUNG, NELLIE LETITIA MOONEY. (1873– .) (_H._)
    *Neutral Fuse. MacL. Dec. 1, ’24. (28.)

  MCCLURE, JOHN. (_See 1924._)
    *Grammarian. A. Merc. Dec., ’24. (3:399.)

  MCCOY, SAMUEL DUFF. (1882– .) (_H._)
    Prudence. Col. Oct. 18, ’24. (10.)

  MCCULLUM, MELLA RUSSELL. (_See 1924._)
    Another Day. Col. Nov. 8, ’24. (18.)
    Roots. Col. Aug. 29. (28.)

  MACDONALD, EDWINA LEVIN. (_See 1924._)
    Black and White Magic. Ev. May. (14.)

  MACDONALD, HAZEL CHRISTIE.
    Husband for George-Anne. S. E. P. Feb. 7. (16.)
    Jo-Jo and the Marvelous Prince. Hol. Dec., ’24. (7.)

  MCDONALD, ROBERTA.
    In the Tennessee Hills. McC. Jun. (1:37.)

  MCFADDEN, MARION.
    *Pescecani. Ind. May 9. (114:521.)

  MCGEEHAN, W. O. (1879– .) (_See 1924._)
    Barber of Broadway. Col. Nov. 1, ’24. (14.)
    Nerve. Ly. Aug. 29. (12.)
    Slide Trombone. Ly. May 23. (33.)
    This Sporting Life. Col. Dec. 13, ’24. (5.)
    Those Fearful Fillies. Ly. Jul. 4. (44.)

  MACGILL, CAROLINE E. (_See 1924._)
    Downfall of Sister Winefride. Cath. W. Oct., ’24. (120:81.)
    Old Path. Cath. W. Jun. (121:334.)
    Soul at the Crossroads. Cath. W. Jan. (120:504.)
    Way of Ethel Holroyd. Cath. W. Jul. (121:503.)

  MACGRATH, HAROLD. (1871– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Cellini Plaque. S. E. P. Jan. 17. (5.)
    Two Faces. Ly. Jan. 10. (32.)
    Sporting Spinster. S. E. P. Feb. 7. (8.)

  MCINTYRE, O.O.
    That Glee-or-ious Fourth. Cos. Jul. (60.)

  MACKENDRICK, MARDA. (_See 1919._)
    Sunlight. Hol. Dec., ’24. (18.)

  MCMORROW, THOMAS. (_See 1924._)
    All in the Family. S. E. P. Oct. 11, ’24. (12.)
    And All Things Else. S. E. P. Jan. 3. (20.)
    Anything to Oblige. S. E. P. Feb. 21, (30.).
    Appointed Task. S. E. P. May 30. (12.)
    As It Was in the Beginning. S. E. P. May 23. (40.)
    Candidate. S. E. P. Oct. 25, ’24. (14.)
    Counselor Ambrose Hinkle. S. E. P. Jun. 6. (5).
    Found Money. S. E. P. Mar. 14. (14.)
    Give a Man Luck. S. E. P. Feb. 7. (18.)
    In Re Dollar-a-Step Company. S. E. P. Jul. 18. (12.)
    Joe Yorick Strives to Please. S. E. P. Dec. 13, ’24. (22.)
    Mr. Pethick Meets the Check-Grabbers. S. E. P. Feb. 28. (10.)
    People Against Foleron. S. E. P. Aug. 1. (12.)
    People Against Hylebut. S. E. P. Jun. 27. (12.)
    People Against Joynes. S. E. P. Sept. 26, ’24. (22.)
    Those Were the Happy Days. S. E. P. Jan. 10. (14.)
    Votes for Women. S. E. P. Nov. 8, ’24. (16.)

  MCNARY, HERBERT L.
    Hail! Hail! the Gang’s All Here. Col. Jan. 17. (10.)

  MCNUTT, WILLIAM SLAVENS. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Boy from the Patch. Col. Nov. 29, ’24. (10.)
    Buddy’s One Idea. Ev. Aug. (75.)
    Course of Blue Love. Col. Oct. 25, ’24. (10.)
    Harbor Luck. Col. Aug. 22. (7.)
    In Business for Himself. Col. Feb. 7. (7.)
    It’s a Great Game. Ly. Apr. 11. (35.)
    Money Ain’t Everything. Ly. Jul. 18. (15.)
    Strong. Ly. Feb. 7. (16.)
    Temporarily Out of Order. Ly. May 17, ’24. (7.)
    Jazz Justice. Col. Dec. 27, ’24. (5.)

  MARKEY, CORINNE HARRIS. (_See 1923._)
    *Mystery of Room 513. Am. Dec., ’24. (9.)

  MARKS, PERCY.
    **Hail, Friend! Book. (N. Y.). Dec., ’24. (60:449.)

  MARQUAND, JOHN PHILLIPS. (1893– .) (_See 1924._)
    Big Guys. S. E. P. Feb. 21. (42.)
    **Educated Money. S. E. P. Feb. 14. (10.)
    *Foot of the Class. S. E. P. Mar. 21. (3.)
    Friend of the Family. S. E. P. Dec. 13, ’24. (8.)
    Much Too Clever. S. E. P. Apr. 25. (8.).
    Jamaica Road. S. E. P. Jul. 4. (5.)
    ***Old Man. S. E. P. Jun. 6. (10.)

  MARQUIS, DON. (1878– .) (_See 1921._) (_H._)
    **Carter. (_R._) Gol. Feb. (1:235.)

  MARSH, GEORGE T. (1876– .) (_See 1922._) (_H._)
    Outlaw. Red Bk. May. (42.)
    Vengeance of Black Fox. Red Bk. Sept. (42.)

  MARSH, HOWARD R. (1893– .)
    ***Rebellion. Inc. Jan. 17. (114:65.)

  MARTYN, WYNDHAM. (1875– .) (_See 1924._)
    Love Rides Up in a Flivver. Cos. Apr. (85.)
    Wisdom of Eve. Hear. Dec., ’24. (27.)
    Youth Is Stranger Than Fiction. Ly. Jun. 21, ’24. (38.)

  MASON, ARTHUR. (1876– .) (_See 1924._)
    *Aboard the Lazy Wave. Blue Bk. Aug. (125.)
    **Cuckoo Clock. Red Bk. Dec., ’24. (85.)
    *Rescue. Red Bk. Nov., ’24. (86.)
    *Sea’s Sam. Sea. Dec., ’24. (87.)
    *Syncopated Sailor. Blue Bk. Sept. (110.)
    *True Love and the Widow Fay. Book. (N. Y.). Jul. (61:524.)

  MASON, GRACE SARTWELL. (1877– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Cinderella Steps Out. S. E. P. Nov. 8, ’24. (29.)
    *Excess Baggage. Red Bk. Jan. (42.)
    ***Gray Spell. S. E. P. Mar. 28. (18.)
    Indian Summer. S. E. P. Aug. 1. (16.)

  MASON, GREGORY. (1889– .) (_See 1924._)
    Lemon Pie. A. Merc. Jul. (5:314.)

  MASTERS, HELEN GENEVA.
    *Cynthia: A Silhouette. Mid. Dec., ’24. (10:446.)

  MATHES, C. HODGE. (_See 1924._)
    As We Forgive. Ev. Aug. (143.)
    **Linkster. Ev. Oct., ’24. (176.)

  MATHEUS, JOHN F. (1887– .)
    ***Fog. Opp. May. (3:144.)

  MATHEY, FABYAN. (1903– .)
    ***Sunday. Book. (N. Y.) Apr. (61:139.)

  MAY, STELLA BURKE.
    Theodora Sees Her World. Hol. Nov., ’24. (14.)

  MELLETT, BERTHE KNATVOLD. (_See 1924._)
    Anna Martin. McCall. Apr. (10.)

  MELVILLE, HERMAN. (1819–1891.)
    ***Fight with the White Whale. (_R._) Gol. Aug. (2:183.)

  “MELVIN, P.”
    *Pogrom. J. T. Dec. 26, ’24. (2.)

  MERWIN, SAMUEL. (1874– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Babes in Hollywood. Ly. Nov. 8, ’24. (12.)
    Baby Spot. Ly. May 31, ’24. (3.)
    More Stately Mansions. Red Bk. Oct., ’24. (27.)
    Staccato. Ev. Jul. (26.)
    What’ll I Do? Red Bk. Jun. (56.)

  MEZQUIDA, ANNA BLAKE. (_See 1924._)
    Unwritten Book. Hol. Jan. (20.)

  MICHENER, CARROLL K. (_See 1924._)
    Eye of Precious Mountain. Hol. Mar. (12.)
    Green Jaguar. Asia. Dec., ’24. (24:970.)
    Pig Calypso. Col. Jun. 20. (18.)
    *Pigweed. Chic. Trib. Mar. 22.
    Skyscraper in Spain. Chic. Trib. Apr. 12.
    Wren’s Nest. Hol. Sept. (22.)

  MILLER, ALICE DUER. (1874– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Action. Des. Feb. (5.)
    Great City. Pict. R. Sept. (5.)
    Juliet and Mercutio. W. H. C. Dec., ’24. (22.)
    Three Ladies. W. H. C. Jun. (9.)
    Two Poets and a Burglar. Des. Mar. (10.)

  MILLER, EVELYN DEWEY.
    *Who Sit and Wait. S. W. Jul. (78.)

  MILLER, HELEN TOPPING. (1884– .) (_See 1924._)
    Buoy off Thunderhead. Hol. Sept. (18.)
    Channel Water. Am. Jan. (21.)
    Long Knife and a Merry One. Hol. Jan. (16.)
    Quitters. Hol. May. (19.)
    They Speak Only to God. G. H. Apr. (46.)

  MILLER, JEWELL.
    World in a Nutshell. Cath. W. Feb. (120:589.)

  MILLIS, WALTER. (1899– .) (_See 1924._)
    *Jason. Harp. M. May. (150:713.)

  MILLS, DOROTHY CULVER. (_See 1924._)
    Bits of Wood. Hol. Feb. (7.)
    Matter of Luck. Hol. Nov., ’24. (18.)

  MINNIGERODE, MEADE. (1887– .) (_See 1924._)
    *Pop-Eyed Cow. Ev. Oct., ’24. (53.)

  MITCHELL, ELEANOR EARLY. (_See 1924_.)
    Ghost of Yesterday. Macf. Dec., ’24. (22.)

  MITCHELL, RUTH COMFORT. (MRS. SANBORN YOUNG.) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Blood and Tears. Red Bk. Feb. (43.)
    Contempt of Families. W. H. C. Jul. (9.)
    Crossroads. Red Bk. May. (84.)
    Into Her Kingdom. Red Bk. Mar. (71.)
    I Saw Three Ships Go Sailing By! W. H. C. Jan. (17.)
    Little Sister. Red Bk. Jun. (80.)

  MONTAGUE, MARGARET PRESCOTT. (1878– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    ***Great Theme. N. A. Rev. Mar. (221:522.)
    ***Roots. Atl. Aug. (136:230.)

  MONTGOMERY, LUCY MAUD. (MRS. EWEN MACDONALD.) (1874– .) (_H._)
    *Enter, Emily. Del. Jan. (10.)
    *Her Dog Day. Del. Apr. (10.)
    *Night Watch. Del. Mar. (10.)
    *Too Few Cooks. Del. Feb. (10.)

  MONTROSS, LOIS SEYSTER. (_See 1924._)
    Almost a Giant. G. H. Apr. (30.)
    Boys in the House. Pict. R. May. (28.)
    *Clever Accomplice. S. E. P. Apr. 18. (12.)
    Georgy and the Dragon. Pict. R. Jul. (10.)
    *Georgy Porgy, Prodigy. Pict. R. Jun. (12.)
    Miss Ferry and Mr. Barge. Pict. R. Mar. (10.)

  MOON, LORNA. (_See 1924._)
    ***Wantin’ a Hand. Cen. Nov., ’24. (109:15.)

  MOROSO, JOHN ANTONIO. (1874– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Ladders McLaughlin. Hol. Mar. (8.)

  MORRIS, GOUVERNEUR. (1876– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Wooing Without Words. Cos. Oct., ’24. (52.)

  MORRIS, HILDA. (_See 1924._)
    House That Waited. Hol. Jun. (17.)

  MORRIS, LAWRENCE S. (1894– .) (_See 1924._)
    ***Apples of Gold or Pictures of Silver. Scr. Jun. (77:619.)

  MORROW, HONORE MCCUE WILLSIE. (_See 1924 and “H” under_ WILLSIE,
        HONORE.)
    *Lost Speech. Del. Feb. (5.)

  MORSE, STEARNS.
    *Last House. Mid. Oct., ’24. (10:359.)

  MORTON, LEIGH. (_See 1924._)
    Three Moments. Scr. Mar. (77:290.)

  MOSLEY, JEFFERSON.
    ***Secret at the Crossroads. For. Nov., ’24. (72:577.)

  MULLEN, KATE. (_See 1924._)
    ***Interval. For. Jan. (73:79.)

  MUNSTERBERG, MARGARETE.
    *Aunt Minna. Strat. Nov., ’24. (3:171.)

  MYGATT, GERALD. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    First Requisite. Col. Mar. 28. (15.)
    Marjorie’s Mirage. W. H. C. May. (23.)
    Minus Romance. Col. Jan. 3. (15.)


                                   N

  NASON, LEONARD H.
    Reward of Valor. Ly. Jul. 18. (5.)
    Tank and the Doctor. Ly. Sept. 5. (21.)

  NEALL, NOAH WEBSTER.
    Innocent Husband. Hear. Nov., ’24. (80.)

  NEIDIG, WILLIAM JONATHAN. (1870– .) (_See 1923._) (_H._)
    Blue Diamonds. S. E. P. Aug. 15. (8.)
    Go to the Fire Ant. S. E. P. Mar. 7. (14.)
    Walled Out. Red Bk. Jan. (85.)

  NEWMAN, OLIVER PECK. (_See 1922._)
    Girl in the Cabinet. McCall. Apr. (14.)

  “NEYO, BELLA.” _See_ COHEN, BELLA.

  NICHOLL, LOUISE TOWNSEND. (_See 1923._)
    *Enchanted Kingdom. Cen. Nov., ’24. (109:41.)
    ***Green Ice. Cen. Mar. (109:666.)

  NORDHOFF, CHARLES B. (1887– .) (_See 1922._)
    *Man Who Was Laid on the Shelf. Hear. Feb. (16.)
    *Thin Skin of Civilization. Hear. Oct., ’24. (58.)

  NORRIS, (BENJAMIN) FRANK(LIN). (1870–1902.) (_H._)
    ***Grettir at Drangey. (_R._) Gol. Jul. (2:25.)

  NORRIS, KATHLEEN. (1880– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    June Week. Cos. Dec., ’24. (48.)
    *Landslide. G. H. Jun. (22.)
    ***Masterpiece. Cos. Feb. (32.)


                                   O

  O’BRIEN, FITZJAMES. (1828–1862.)
    ***What Was It? (_R._) Gol. Sept. (2:365.)

  O’BRIEN, JEAN.
    Letters to Imaginary Mothers. Hol. Jun. (26.)

  O’HAGAN, ANNE. (ANNE O’HAGAN SHINN.) (1869– .) (_See 1923._) (_H._)
    Fire! Fire! Del. Jun. (14.)
    Morey Wins His Heart’s Desire.
    Chic. Trib. Feb. 15.

  O’HARA, FRANK HURBURT. (_See 1917._)
    Story the Editor Didn’t Want. W. H. C. Apr. (27.)

  O’HIGGINS, HARVEY JERROLD. (1876– .) (_See 1920._) (_H._)
    Burton Murder. Red Bk. Mar. (27.)
    Forged Letter. Red Bk. Apr. (42.)
    James Illinois Bell. Red Bk. Jun. (85.)
    ***Love Story of a Silent Man. MacL. Jan. 15. (8.) Hear. Feb. (88.)
    Stop Thief! Red Bk. Sept. (61.)

  OLIVER, OWEN. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Alibi. Ly. May 2. (16.)
    Fear. Hol. Mar. (7.)
    Rope. Hol. Jul. (11.)
    Tattooed Mermaid. Ly. Apr. 25. (47.)
    Touching Up the Portrait. Hol. Sept. (11.)

  OLMSTED, STANLEY. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Homer Hunterfield. Ev. May. (62.)

  OPPENHEIM, JAMES. (1882– .) (_See 1923._) (_H._)
    Lady in Blue Boots. Col. Aug. 15. (12.)
    ***Last Man. Col. Apr. 18, ’25. (18.)
    *Nothing Else Matters. Col. Mar. 21, ’25. (20.)
    *Rose Lee. Col. Jul. 11. (7.)

  O’REILLY, EDWARD SINNOTT. (1880– .) (_See 1924._)
    His Perfect Wife. Pict. R. Sept. (11.)
    Like a White Man. Ly. Apr. 4. (40.)

  ORR, EDITH. (_See 1916._) (_H._)
    Revenge. S. E. P. Jan. 3. (16.)

  OSKISON, JOHN MILTON. (1874– .) (_See 1916._) (_H._)
    Other Partner. Col. Dec. 6, ’24. (14.)
    *Singing Bird. Sun. Mar. (5.)

  OSTENSO, MARTHA. (_See 1924._)
    *Storm. MacL. Apr. 15. (17.)

  OWEN, FRANK. (_See 1918._)
    *Glamour. Gal. Summer. (2:65.)

  “OXFORD, JOHN BARTON.” _See_ SHELTON, RICHARD BARKER.


                                   P

  PACKARD, FRANK LUCIUS. (1877– .) (_H._)
    Pirates. Hear. Dec., ’24. (87.)

  PANGBORN, GEORGIA WOOD. (1872– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Six O’Clock Train. Chic. Trib. Dec. 21, ’24.

  PARADISE, VIOLA L. (_See 1923._)
    **Calabrian Goes Home. Harp. M. Oct., ’24. (149:598.)
    Little Speed. McC. Jun. (14.)

  PARKER, AUSTIN. (_See 1924._)
    Five Thousand Clankers. Col. Dec. 6, ’24. (7.)
    Inspired Liar. S. E. P. Aug. 22. (16.)
    Rowdy Element. Col. Oct. 25, ’24. (15.)
    Terror of Bascom Hills. S. E. P. Apr. 25. (22.)
    P. Toddhunter, Clk. S. E. P. May 16. (12.)

  PARKER, DOROTHY ROTHSCHILD. (1893– .) (_See 1923._)
    **Mr. Durrant. A. Merc. Sept., ’24. (3:81.)

  PARMENTER, CHRISTINE WHITING. (1877– .) (_See 1924._)
    Good Sports. Del. Apr. (15.)
    *Hero’s Blood. Cath. W. Sept. (121:737.)
    *His Own Country. Cath. W. Feb. (120:636.)
    Majesty of the Law. Cath. W. Jun. (121:370.)

  PARSONS, ALICE BELL.
    Love at 42 Altgeld Avenue. Dial. Sept. (79:221.)

  PATRICK, ARNOLD.
    Kite that Wouldn’t Fly. Book. (N. Y.) Nov., ’24. (60:315.)

  PATTULLO, GEORGE. (1879– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Blind Goddess. S. E. P. Apr. 11. (8.)
    Galloping Donkeys No Good. S. E. P. Jan. 24. (18.)
    Home-Coming. S. E. P. May 30. (8.)
    Home Folks. S. E. P. Mar. 7. (3.)
    Lovers’ Time. S. E. P. Oct. 4, ’24. (16.)
    Tweeties. S. E. P. Nov. 1, ’24. (18.)

  PAYNE, WILL. (1855– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Genial Crook. Col. May 16. (11.)
    Paradise Island. S. E. P. Oct. 4, ’24. (38.)
    Perfect State. S. E. P. Dec. 27, ’24. (12.)
    White Heron. S. E. P. Jul. 4. (33.)

  PEAKE, ELMORE ELLIOTT. (1871– .) (_See 1917._) (_H._)
    Night Run of the Overland. McC. Aug. (1:626.)

  PEGLER, WESTBROOK.
    Palooka. Ly. Jan. 17. (12.)

  PELLEY, WILLIAM DUDLEY. (1885– .) (_See 1924._)
    *Behind the Moonglade. Mun. Aug. (85:413.)
    *Father Who Dared. Red Bk. July. (90.)
    *Happier, Far-Off Things. Mun. Jun. (85:39.)
    *Last Galley. Red Bk. May. (56.)
    *Left-Legged Man. Hear. Feb. (74.)
    *Right Miss Wright. Pict. R. Aug. (26.)
    *Woman Who Married the Wrong
    Man. Cos. Jun. (58.)

  PERRY, ARMSTRONG.
    *Peeler. Cath. W. Sept. (121:804.)

  PERRY, LAWRENCE. (1875– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Give Way. Col. Jul. 4. (5.)
    Incognito. Hol. Mar. (24.)
    *Soul Kiss. Ly. Sept. 26. (8.)
    Vamp Capper. Red Bk. Nov., ’24. (34.)

  PERRY, MONTANYE. (_See 1924._)
    Dawn. Del. Apr. (5.)

  PETERKIN, JULIA M. (_See 1924._)
    **Manners. Rev. Jul. (71.)
    ***Maum Lou. Rev. Jan. (5:17.)
    ***Sorcerer. A. Merc. Apr. (4:441.)

  PETO, FLORENCE M. (_See 1924._)
    When Knights Are Cold. Hol. Aug. (26.)

  “PHAYRE, IGNATIUS.” (W. G. FITZGERALD.)
    Diabolo. Ly. Oct. 18, ’24. (9.)

  PHILLIPS, DOROTHY SANBURN. (_See 1924._)
    Helen Goes A-Hunting. G. H. Jun. (34.)
    Sisters. G. H. Feb. (66.)
    That Troublesome Thing Called Charm. Am. Oct., ’24. (38.)
    Woman Who Wanted To Be a Martyr. Am. Apr. (40.)

  PHILLIPS, HENRY WALLACE. (1869– .) (_See 1916._) (_H._)
    ***Golden Ford. (_R._) Gol. Jun. (1:883.)

  PICKTHALL, MARJORIE LOWRY CHRISTIE. (?–1922.) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Leaving Verrall. Del. Oct., ’24. (5.)
    *Pulse of Life. W. H. C. Mar. (7.)
    *Thirty Below. Blue Bk. Mar. (135.)

  POE, EDGAR ALLAN. (1809–1849.) (_See 1921._) (_H._)
    ***Purloined Letter. (_R._) Gol. Apr. (1:528.)

  POOLE, ERNEST. (1880– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Critic on the Hearth. Ev. Apr. (9.)
    *Detour. W. H. C. Apr. (17.)
    **Devil’s Finger. Ind. Nov. 1, ’24. (113:333.)
    *Double-Barreled Romance. Am. H. Apr. 10. (116:676.)
    Gasoline Gypsies. Ly. Aug. 1. (40.)
    *Girl in China. Cos. Jun. (86.)
    *Lady With the Icy Kiss. Cos. Jun. (94.)
    **Last of the Giants. Cos. Mar. (90.)
    *Man Who Believed in Devils. Cos. Aug. (104.)
    **Mighty First One. Ind. Jan. 10. (114:36.)
    **Mother Volga. Ind. Dec. 20, ’24. (113:537.)
    *Shadow in the Dark. Cos. Jul. (108.)
    *Ships that Pass. Red Bk. Dec., ’24. (60.)

  PORTER, HAROLD EVERETT. _See_ “HALL, HOLWORTHY.”

  PORTER, KATHERINE ANNE. (1894– .) (_See 1923._)
    **Virgin Violeta. Cen. Dec., ’24. (109:261.)

  PORTER, WILLIAM SYDNEY. _See_ “HENRY, O.”

  PORTOR, LAURA SPENCER. (MRS. POPE.) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *“Savoir Faire.” Harp. M. Aug. (151:293.)

  POST, MELVILLE DAVISSON. (1871– .) (_See 1924_) (_H._)
    **Miracle. Pict. R. Dec., ’24. (6.)

  POWELL, HARFORD W., JR. (1887– .) (_See 1924._)
    Citizen of the World. Col. Nov. 1, ’24. (10.)
    Gilded Heights. Col. Oct. 11, ’24. (10.)

  PRATT, LUCY. (1874– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    ***Dark Gate. G. H. Oct., ’24. (76.)
    *Grown Folks Astray. G. H. Aug. (42.)

  PRICE, HELEN F.
    Transferred Sunshine. Ind. Jan. 24. (114:95.)

  PRIDE, JANE.
    Between Trains. Des. Jun. (8.)
    Salad Days. G. H. Mar. (46.)

  PRUETTE, LORINE. (1896– .)
    ***Smile of Victory. Cath. W. Apr. (121:9.)

  PULVER, MARY BRECHT. (1883– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Beyond the Pale. W. H. C. Apr. (14.)
    Big Bertha in the Lion’s Den. S. E. P. Nov. 15, ’24. (18.)
    Ella May’s Golliwog. S. E. P. Apr. 11. (30.)
    Fourth Grace. S. E. P. Dec. 20, ’24. (12.)
    House in the Laurels. S. E. P. Apr. 25. (30.)
    Mitigating Strain. S. E. P. May 23. (18.)
    So This is Love! Ly. Apr. 18. (26.)
    *Sunken Garden. S. E. P. Nov. 29, ’24. (10.)
    Who Are the Cultured? S. E. P. Nov. 1, ’24. (36.)

  PUTNAM, NINA WILCOX. (1888– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    “Apple Sauce!” Cos. Mar. (69.)
    Doubling for Cupid. S. E. P. Dec. 13, ’24. (18.)
    Dumb Luck. Cos. Jul. (72.)
    Gossip Insurance. S. E. P. Jan. 10. (20.)
    “Oh! I Have Lived!” Hear. Feb. (10.)
    Snake’s Hips. Red Bk. Jan. (55.)
    Some Boloney! Cos. May. (59.)
    Travel at Your Own Risk. S. E. P. Oct. 25, ’24. (37.)
    Vamping Till Ready. S. E. P. Jan. 31. (18.)
    Where the Road to Mandy Lay. S. E. P. Dec. 6, ’24. (46.)


                                   Q

  QUINN, ARTHUR HOBSON. (1875– .) (_H._)
    *Last Appeal. Scr. Jun. (77:653.)


                                   R

  RAFFELOCK, DAVID.
    Gone to Seed. Echo. Apr. (1.)

  RAMSAY, R.
    Secret. Hol. Jun. (7.)

  RAY, MARIE BEYNON. (_See 1924._)
    Secret Prisoner. Harp. B. Apr. (174.)
    *White Wings of Moths. G. H. Feb. (31.)

  RAYMOND, CHARLES H. (_H._)
    **His Last Story. Macf. Oct., ’24. (34.)

  RAYMOND, CLIFFORD SAMUEL. (1875– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Agnes. Ly. Mar. 21. (14.)
    Baptism of Fire. Ly. Feb. 21. (28.)
    Claude. Chic. Trib. Jul. 12.
    Mad Anthony: The Flight from Eden. Ly. Jan. 31. (28.)
    Man Proposes. Ly. Oct. 18, ’24. (51.)
    Rosie. Ly. Dec. 27, ’24. (22.)
    Wilder Flowers. Chic. Trib. May 10.

  READ, OPIE. (“ARKANSAS TRAVELLER.”) (1852– .) (_H._)
    *Sampson and Socrates. Cos. Feb. (44.)

  REDINGTON, HELEN. _See_ WALKER, ISABEL _and_ REDINGTON, HELEN.

  REED, EARL H.
    *Gray Canoe. (_R._) Pear. (Am.) Apr. (31.)

  REESE, LOWELL OTUS. (1866– .) (_See 1924._)
    “I Got Honolulu.” S. E. P. Sept. 5. (18.)
    Teeter-Snipe Brains. S.E.P. Dec. 6, ’24. (16.)

  REEVE, ARTHUR BENJAMIN. (1880– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Dead Beats. C. G. Aug. 1. (6.)

  RETNER, BETH A.
    Little Comedian. G. H. Aug. (52.)

  RICE, ALICE CALDWELL HEGAN. (1870– .) (_See 1923._) (_H._)
    Miss Gee. Red. Bk. Jan. (38.)

  RICE, CALE YOUNG. (1872– .)
    Environment. Red. Bk. Feb. (76.)

  RICHART, MARY.
    Sea Girl. Hol. Jul. (7.)

  RICHTER, CONRAD. (1890– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Derickson’s Gagoo. Am. May. (20.)

  RIDEOUT, HENRY MILNER. (1877– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Old Things. S. E. P. Apr. 18. (18.)
    **Powers of Darkness. S. E. P. Jul. 4. (12.)
    *Seeds of Time. S. E. P. Jan. 10. (16.)

  RINEHART, ALAN. (_See 1924._)
    *Full Honors. Blue Bk. May. (39.)

  RINEHART, MARY ROBERTS. (1876– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Hijack and the Game. S. E. P. Jan. 31. (3.)
    Surgeon Explodes a Bomb. S. E. P. Feb. 7. (3.)

  RIPLEY, CLEMENTS.
    Harrison Teagle and the Law. Col. Nov. 8, ’24. (13.)

  ROBBINS, TOD. (_See 1920._)
    ***Bit of a Banshee. For. Dec., ’24. (72:767.)

  ROBERTS, CHARLES GEORGE DOUGLAS. (1860– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Blue Destroyer. Mun. Apr. (84:422.)
    *Challenge to the Chief. Mun. Jan. (83:641.)
    Guardian of the Care. Red Bk. Mar. (48.)

  ROBERTS, ISABEL J. (_See 1922._)
    Jointed-Animal Shop. Cath. W. Apr. (121:59.)

  ROBIN, MAX. (_See 1924._)
    *Childhood. B’nai B’rith Magazine. Jan. (39:129.)
    *Far Away and Long Ago. The Day. Apr. 5. (1.)
    *Geese. Y. I. Aug. (5.)
    *“Good Purim.” The Day. Mar. 8. (1.)
    ***Itzikil. Men. J. Apr. (11:145.)
    *Litvakis-Wise Men. J. T. Dec. 5, ’24. (18.)
    *Rain. Y. I. Jun. (4.)
    *Tashlich. Y. I. Sept. (5.)

  ROBINSON, ELSIE. (_See 1924._)
    ***Misunderstood Husband. Hear. Oct., ’24. (18.)

  ROBINSON, GERTRUDE. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Arianna. W. H. C. Apr. (25.)

  ROBINSON, ROBERT. (1899– .)
    ***Ill Wind. Col. Aug. 29. (18.)

  ROCHE, ARTHUR SOMERS. (1883– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Girl Who Lost Her Job. Cos. Jul. (48.)
    Mad Tony Sark. Harp. B. June. (54.)
    Man With a Shady Past. Cos. Apr. (36.)
    Only Woman in the World. McCall. Apr. (8.)
    Overlapping Grip. Harp. B. Aug. (56.)
    $21,000 Cash. Cos. Sept. (40.)

  ROE, VINGIE E. (MRS. LAWTON.) (1879– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Mad Moon. McCall. May. (12.)
    Splendid Road. McCall. Mar. (17.)
    Vengeance Is Mine. McCall. Oct. ’24. (20.)

  ROMAN, FRANCIS VINCI.
    **Hunt. Leonardo, 1925. (34.)

  ROSE, NONIE.
    *Buffers. Strat. Oct., ’24. (3:56.)

  ROSENBLATT, BENJAMIN. (1880– .) (_See 1922._) (_H._)
    *Boarding House Poet. J. T. June 19. (3.)
    *Race. J. T. Jul. 24. (4.)

  ROSS, DAVID.
    Beggar’s Choice. L. H. J. May. (6.)

  ROTHMAN, MAURICE.
    *“Barneh Haboh.” J. F. Aug. (8:374.)

  ROUSE, WILLIAM MERRIAM. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Girl from the Night. Ly. Feb. 28. (38.)
    Hickory Pete. Col. Apr. 4. (11.)
    Time to Every Purpose. Col. Nov. 22, ’24. (15.)

  ROWLAND, HENRY COTTRELL. (1874– .) (_See 1923._) (_H._)
    Arbiter. Chic. Trib. Sept. 20.
    Bell Glasses. Chic. Trib. May 31.
    Child’s Play. Chic. Trib. Aug. 23.
    Three Liars. Chic. Trib. Jun. 28.
    Wait and See. S. E. P. Mar. 14. (49.)
    When You Stop to Think. Chic. Trib. Jul. 26.

  ROWLAND, JOHN T. (1885– .) (_See 1920._)
    Full Speed Ahead. Ly. May 2. (52.)
    Tale of Rorie McLeish. Outl. (N. Y.) Jan. 14. (139:64.)

  RUMFORD, JULIA.
    Elise. Opp. Feb. (3:56.)

  RUSSELL, ALICE DYAR. (_See 1919._)
    Her Own Money. Hol. Jun. (20.)

  RUSSELL, JOHN. (1885– .) (_See 1924._)
    *Knife. S. E. P. Feb. 7. (12.)
    *Primitive. S. E. P. Feb. 14. (12.)

  RUSSELL, MALCOLM MALLORY.
    Flower of Fauquembergues. Pear. (Am.) Mar. (47.)
    Institutrice of Florent. Pear. (Am.) Apr. (18.)

  RUTLEDGE, JOSEPH LISTER. (_See 1924._)
    Ear to the Ground. S. E. P. Jan. 10. (47.)
    One Way Out. Hol. Mar. (16.)

  “RUTLEDGE, MARYSE.” (1884– .) (_See 1924_) _and “H” under_
        GOETSCHIUS, MARIE LOUISE.
    *His Birthday. Ev. Apr. (54.)
    **Home. Chic. Trib. Nov. 16, ’24.

  RYAN, STELLA.
    *Postponed. W. H. C. Aug. (15.)

  RYDER, MARGARET.
    Hunting Weather. Col. Nov. 15, ’24. (19.)

  RYERSON, FLORENCE. (_See 1923._)
    Apricot, with Blue Windows. L. H. J. Jul. (10.)
    Green Bench. Hol. Feb. (11.)
    Three a Day. Hol. Dec., ’24. (15.)


                                   S

  SACHS, EMANIE N. (_See 1914._)
    *Crusaders. Am. H. Sept. 18. (117:546.)

  ST. JOHNS, ADELA ROGERS. (_See 1924._)
    Haunted Lady. Cos. May. (38.)
    Heart of a Follie’s Evil. Cos. Dec., ’24. (55.).
    Last Affair of Lalum Chang. Cos. Jul. (62.)

  SALTUS, EDGAR EVERSTON. (1858–1923.) (_See 1915._) (_H._)
    **Bouquet of Illusions. Pear. (Am.) Mar. (13.)

  SAMSON, ERIC.
    L’Ankou. Cath. W. Aug. (121:617.)

  SANBORN, RUTH BURR. (_See 1924._)
    Say It With Words. S. E. P. Jun. 20. (8.)
    Opportunity Telegraphs. Chic. Trib. Dec. 7, ’24.

  SANFORD, WINIFRED.
    *Allie. A. Merc. Jul. (5:280.)
    **Forest Fire. A. Merc. Sept. (6:20.)
    **Wreck. A. Merc. Jan. (4:14.)

  SANGSTER, MARGARET ELIZABETH. (1894– .) (_See 1924._)
    Lost. G. H. Apr. (72.)
    Love-Story of Giovanni MacKee. G. H. Feb. (24.)
    Song in the Valley. G. H. Aug. (58.)

  SASS, HERBERT RAVENEL. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Bachelors of Devilhead. S. E. P. Dec. 6, ’24. (28.)
    Golden Wanderer. S. E. P. Jan. 31. (43.)
    Lotor the Lucky. S. E. P. Dec. 13, ’24. (42.)
    Northwind. Col. Jun. 13. (11.)
    Peregrine. S. E. P. Apr. 25. (32.)
    Prisoners of Half-Acre. S. E. P. Apr. 4. (22.)
    Rusty Roustabout. S. E. P. Nov. 1, ’24. (20.)

  SAUNDERS, W. O. (_See 1923._)
    Buttercup. Col. Nov. 29, ’24. (18.)

  SAWHILL, MYRA. (_See 1924._)
    Fool’s Gold. Am. Apr. (31.)

  SAXBY, CHARLES. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Basket of Snakes. Chic. Trib. Oct. 19.

  SCARRY, JOHN. (_See 1924._)
    Plantation. Col. Feb. 7. (12.)

  SCHOONMAKER, FRANK.
    *Poon. H. C. Summer. (31.)

  SCOGGINS, CHARLES ELBERT. (_See 1924._)
    Proud Old Name. S. E. P. Nov. 15, ’24. (3.)

  SCOTT, EVELYN.
    Old Lady. Dial. May. (78:369.)

  SCOTT, LEROY. (1875– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Drayton Case. McCall. Jun. (11.)
    Summer Widow. McCall. May. (18.)

  SCOVILLE, SAMUEL, JR. (1872– .) (_See 1923._) (_H._)
    Cave of the Bear. Col. May 30. (20.)
    Death-Dodger. Col. Jan. 10. (10.)
    Devil of Doomsday. Red Bk. Jul. (60.)
    Honey Badger. Col. Aug. 15. (7.)
    *Three Who Met Again. Col. Oct. 25, ’24. (25.)
    When Red Rooi Was King. Col. Oct. 4, ’24. (21.)

  SEIFERT, SHIRLEY L. (_See 1924._)
    Late Mrs. Carr. Del. Nov., ’24. (5.)
    Open Wider, Please! Del. Jul. (12.)

  SHANNON, MARY. (_See 1923._)
    *Leader of the Twilight Band. Pop. Mar. 7. (186.)

  SHAW, BILLIE.
    Broadway Rose. Ly. Aug. 22. (40.)

  SHAWE, VICTOR. (_See 1924._)
    Cleaning of the Craig Clan. S. E. P. Sept. 12. (12.)
    McElvaney’s Third One. S. E. P. Mar. 14. (9.)
    That Law of Later Concessions. S. E. P. Jul. 25. (10.)

  SHEEHAN, PERLEY POORE. (1875– .) (_See 1918._) (_H._)
    Hands of Kilian. Ly. Jul. 11. (42.)
    Heart and Claw. Ly. Sept. 12. (44.)

  SHELTON, RICHARD BARKER. (“JOHN BARTON OXFORD.”) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Not in the Contract. Col. Jan. 24. (10.)

  SHIELDS, GERTRUDE M. (1890– .) (_See 1918._)
    West Meets East. Col. June 27. (9.)

  SHIFFRIN, A. B. (1902– .) (_See 1924._)
    **Five Flights Up. Am. H. Apr. 10. (116:782.)
    ***Other Cheek. Am. H. Feb. 6. (116:383.)
    *Rudolph and the Scarecrow. Am. H. Jul. 17. (117:317.)
    ***Trickle of Red. Am. H. Jan. 9. (116:291.)
    *Wake Me Up Early. J. T. Jun. 26. (3.)

  SHINN, ANNE O’HAGAN. _See_ O’HAGAN, ANNE.

  SHOLL, ANNA MCCLURE. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Pennyroyal. W. H. C. Nov., ’24. (32.)

  SHORE, VIOLA BROTHERS. (_See 1924._)
    Deputy Husband. W. H. C. Feb. (30.)
    Reddy Rolls Her Own. Red Bk. Aug. (88.)
    *There’s Rosemary. Col. Mar. 7. (7.)
    In Clover. Chic. Trib. Apr. 26.

  SHUSTER, GEORGE N.
    **Aveduke and Ames. Com. Feb. 18. (1:406.)

  SHUTE, HENRY AUGUSTUS. (1856– .) (_See 1919._) (_H._)
    Assmer or Tizzick. S. E. P. May 2. (21.)
    Corporosity Ketch, Pack and Sell Elwifes. S. E. P. Aug. 29. (14.)
    Improving the Cemetery. S. E. P. Aug. 8. (19.)
    My Novil and Why Did I Get Licked. S. E. P. Aug. 1. (10.)
    Rooster Five for the Benefit of the Divine Implore. S. E. P. Sept.
        19. (25.)
    Xpecting to be Arrested. S. E. P. Aug. 15. (13.)

  SIGMUND, JAY G.
    *Bonded Stuff. C. R. R. Nov. 17, ’24.
    **Blinkers. Mid. Nov., ’24. (10:403.)
    *Checkers and Potatoes. C. R. R. May 11.
    *Colleague of Ajax. C. R. R. Jan. 12.
    *Moth Proof. C. R. R. Dec. 1, ’24.
    *Discord. C. R. R. Aug. 31.
    *His Own Doorstep. C. R. R. Jan. 5. (3.)
    *Panacea. C. R. R. May 18.
    *“Rah! Rah! Correspondence School!” C. R. R. Dec. 29, ’24.

  SILER, RODERICK W. (_See 1924._)
    Story in the Bottle. Ev. Apr. (20.)

  SILVER, DOUGLAS DE Y.
    Signals. Ly. Nov. 15, ’24.

  SINGMASTER, ELSIE. (MRS. LEWARS.) (1879– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    **Amishman. L. H. J. Apr. (18.)
    *Crucifix. W. H. C. Jun. (19.)
    *Easy Day. L. H. J. Mar. (20.)
    **Elfie. Col. Aug. 15. (16.)
    **End of the World. Col. Aug. 1. (10.)
    *Jilted. Hol. Sept. (12.)
    **Little and Unknown. L. H. J. Dec., ’24. (16.)
    **Salt of the Earth. L. H. J. May (8.)
    *Trapped. Outl. (N. Y.) Nov. 26, ’24. (138:501.)

  SMITH, EDGAR VALENTINE. (1875– .) (_See 1924._)
    **Cameo. Harp. M. Dec., ’24. (150:30.)
    **Pardoned. Harp. M. Jul. (151:213.)

  SMITH, F. WINFIELD. (_See 1924._)
    *Chalk Box. Col. Nov. 1, ’24. (17.)

  SMITH, GORDON ARTHUR. (1886– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Square Wheel. Red Bk. Oct., ’24. (71.)

  SMITH, HARRY BACHE. (1860– .) (_See 1923._)
    **Gypsy Blood. Atl. Apr. (135:507.)

  SMITH, W. EDSON. (_See 1922._) (_H._)
    Finding Is Keeping. Scr. Nov., ’24. (76:500.)

  SMITH, WALLACE. (_See 1924._)
    Cow Callahan. Ind. Sept. 19. (115:327.)
    Good Trouper. Ly. Mar. 7. (50.)
    *“Laughing House.” Am. Jun. (21.)
    Pants. Ly. Jun. 27. (40.)
    *Rejected Gun-Fighter. Blue Bk. Feb. (55.)

  SNEDDON, ROBERT W. (1880– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Woman They Both Knew. Macf. Oct., ’24. (30.)

  SOLIS-COHEN, JUDITH. (_See 1922_), _and_ ELMALEH, LEON H.
    *Desdemona of the Ghetto. Des. Jan. (8.)

  SOLOMON, DAVID R. (_See 1924._)
    In Between. Des. Nov., ’24. (8.)
    Candle-Light. Des. Jul. (14.)
    Dirt Cheap. Des. Sept. (8.)
    Perpetual Emotion. Cos. May. (77.)
    Personally Abducted. Des. Feb. (8.)
    Sweet War. Cos. Feb. (88.)

  SOLOMONS, THEODORE SEIXAS. (_See 1924._)
    Shadowed. Del. Dec., ’24. (5.)

  SPEWACK, SAMUEL.
    Boris Buys a Rose. Ly. May 30. (40.)

  SPRINGER, FLETA CAMPBELL. (1886– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    ***Legend. Harp. M. Nov., ’24. (149:721.)

  SQUIER, EDYTHE.
    Flame Unseen, D.D. Oct., ’24. (7:12.)

  SQUIER, EMMA-LINDSAY. (1893– .) (_See 1924._)
    Children of the Twilight. G. H. Nov., ’24. (14.)
    Great Rushing of Wings. McCall. Dec., ’24. (5.)
    Land of the Red Gods. G. H. Mar. (38.)
    Legend of the Chaup Nua. G. H. Jan. (50.)
    Revenge and What Comes After. G. H. Aug. (24.)
    Soul of Caliban. Ev., Dec., ’24. (45.)
    Trembling God. G. H. Feb. (48.)
    Ungrateful Gate. G. H. May. (38.)
    Voice of the Silver Bells. Asia. Aug. (25:665.)
    White Totem. G. H. Jun. (72.)
    Why We Dance the Eagle Dance. G. H. Apr. (24.)

  STANLEY, MAY. (MRS. ELMER BROWN MASON.)
    **New Ways. Pict. R. Nov., ’24. (10.)
    ***Old Man Ledge. Pict. R. Jun. (10.)

  STEELE, ALICE GARLAND. (MRS. AUSTIN-BALL.) (1880– .) (_See 1924._)
        (_H._)
    Blue Hyacinths. Am. Jul. (46.)
    “That’s What Homes are For!” Am. Jun. (52.)

  STEELE, WILBUR DANIEL. (1886– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    ***Man Who Saw Through Heaven. Harp. M. Sept. (151:428.)
    ***Sauce for the Goose. Pict. R. Jan. (12.)
    ***Six Dollars. Pict. R. Mar. (12.)
    ***Thinker. Pict. R. Dec., ’24. (16.)
    ***When Hell Froze. Harp. M. May. (150:658.)

  STERRETT, FRANCES ROBERTA. (1869– .) (_H._)
    Rich Man’s Son. Ev. Nov., ’24. (107.)

  STEVENSON, PHILIP E. (_See 1922._)
    *Smithy, Goggles _and_ Co. Mid. Jul. 1. (11:237.)

  STEWART, DONALD OGDEN. (1894– .) (_See 1924._)
    **Morning of Mrs. Gordon Smythe. Tr. Dec., ’24. (2:602.)
    *Robert. Lit. R. Autumn-Winter. (28.)

  STONE, ELINORE COWAN. (_See 1924._)
    *Alibi of Salvador. Col. Aug. 8. (18.)
    *Angela and the Fierce Cally Hope. W. H. C. Sept. (15.)
    *Jose the Unlucky. W. H. C. May. (12.)
    *One Uses the Handkerchief. W. H. C. Nov., ’24. (19.)
    *Question of Precedence. W. H. C. Mar. (30.)
    *Leetla Dog. W. H. C. Jul. (27.)
    *Somewhere in Russia. W. H. C. Jan. (25.)

  STORM, MARIAN.
    Babes in the Wood. Col. Oct. 18,’24. (18.)
    Old Adamant. Col. Feb. 14. (10.)

  STREET, JULIAN LEONARD. (1879– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    **Mr. Bisbee’s Princess. Red. Bk. May. (35.)
    Syringas. S. E. P. Nov. 8, ’24. (12.)

  STRIBLING, T. S. (_See 1924._)
    *Mating of Pompalone. Ev. Feb. (9.)
    *Native Stock. Pict. R. Jul. (12.)

  STRINGER, ARTHUR JOHN ARBUTHNOT. (1874– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Ancient Feud. S. E. P. Apr. 11. (10.)
    Cat. Cos. Nov., ’24. (54.)
    Fifth Avenue. Sept. 19. (12.)
    *Killer’s Daughter. S. E. P. Apr. 4. (5.)
    Squaw Man. Red Bk. Feb. (65.)
    Woman-Handled. S. E. P. May 2. (10.)

  SUCKOW, RUTH. (1892– .) (_See 1924._)
    ***Golden Wedding. A. Merc. Feb. (4:221.)
    ***Start in Life. A. Merc. Sept., ’24. (3:15.)

  SULLIVAN, ALAN. (1868– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Discovery. Mun. Jan. (83:677.)
    Trade. Ev. Jan. (53.)
    White Mulberry. Ev. Sept. (62.)

  SUTTON, WILLIAM MELVILLE.
    Alas for Lika! Oracle. Mar. (1:19.)

  SWAIN, JOHN D. (_See 1922._) (_H._)
    *Ponto de Leon. Mun. Dec., ’24. (83:495.)

  SWAN, MARK E.
    Cuthbert’s Desert Island. Ly. Jan. 3. (26.)

  SWEENEY, ASAPH.
    These People Are the Class. Col. Sept. 5. (12.)

  SWEETLAND, REGINALD. (_See 1924._)
    Mr. Hammer Beards His Lion. Hol. Jul. (12.)

  SYNON, MARY. (1881– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Battle Blood. Des. Jul. (5.)
    Fifty-Fifty. Chic. Trib. Oct. 26, ’24.
    Found on the Doorstep. Red Bk. Dec. ’24. (73.)
    Her Father’s Daughter. Red Bk. Apr. (56.)
    *Mex. Chic. Trib. Aug. 9.
    Promise to Chariot. Des. Sept. (14.)
    *Queen o’ the May. Red Bk. Jul. (75.)


                                   T

  TARKINGTON, NEWTON BOOTH. (1869– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Cornelia’s Mountain. L. J. H. Mar. (6.)
    *Damsel Dark, Damsel Fair. L. H. J. Feb. (6.)
    *Desert Sand. L. H. J. Jun. (8.)
    *Julietta. L. H. J. Aug. (6.)
    *Lily. Chic. Trib. Feb. 8.
    **Mrs. Leslie Braithwaite’s Husband. Chic. Trib. May 3.
    **My Heart. L. H. J. Oct., ’24. (6.)
    ***One-Hundred Dollar Bill. (R.) Gol. Jul. (2:117.)
    **Rabble Rouser. McCall. Nov., ’24. (9.)
    ***Shanty. Chic. Trib. Nov. 9, ’24.
    ***Thea Zell. Red Bk. Apr. (31.)

  TARLETON, FISWOODE. (_See 1924._)
    *Price of Salvation. Echo. Jun. (4.)

  TAYLOR, ELLEN DU POIS.
    ***Calico. Tr. Dec., ’24. (2:623.)

  TAYLOR, JACK.
    Misfit. Ev. Jul. (95.)

  TAYLOR, KATHARINE HAVILAND. (_See 1924._)
    Compensation. Hol. Sept. (20.)
    Little Matter of Adjustment. Hol. Dec., ’24. (20.)

  TERHUNE, ALBERT PAYSON. (1872– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Fox! Ly. May 10, ’24. (17.)
    Ghost that Haunted Sunnybank. Cos. Dec., ’24. (100.)
    In the Rough. Col. Apr. 4. (7.)
    Macduff. L. H. J. Nov., ’24. (25.)
    Talisman. S. E. P. Aug. 8. (6.)
    Parsifal, Unlimited. Col. Aug. 22. (14.)
    Penance. Ly. May 30. (13.)

  TERRILL, LUCY STONE. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    For What Shall it Profit. S. E. P. Sept. 5. (14.)
    Red Hair. S. E. P. Mar. 7. (10.)

  THOMAS, LUKE.
    Young Man’s Fancy. Scr. Mar. (77:257.)

  THOMAS, MARTHA BANNING.
    Birthday Party. Hol. Oct., ’24. (11.)

  THOMPSON, ELOISE BIBB.
    *Mademoiselle ‘Tasie. Opp. Sept. (3:272.)

  THOMPSON, MARY WOLFE. (_See 1923._)
    *“Cross My Heart.” Mid. Mar. 1. (111:101.)
    *“In My Day.” Mid. Mar. 1. (111:112.)
    *Turtle. Mid. Dec., ’24. (10:428.)

  TILDEN, FREEMAN. (1883– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    American, Very Rich. S. E. P. Mar. 21. (16.)
    Bad Huckaby. S. E. P. Mar. 14. (24.)
    Bigger Idea. W. H. C. Apr. (23.)
    Dog Eat Dog. L. H. J. Sept. (6.)
    Green Tights. S. E. P. May 9. (12.)
    Parleyvoo. S. E. P. Feb. 28. (15.)
    To Please the Ladies. S. E. P. Mar. 28. (8.)

  TITUS, HAROLD. (1888– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Aphorisms of Rodney Russell. Ev. Dec., ’24. (169.)
    Family Matter. Red Bk. Jun. (99.)
    Iron Jaw. Am. Nov., ’24. (23.)
    Laugh that Off! Red Bk. Aug. (99.)
    Pioneers. Ly. Aug. 29. (48.)
    To Look ‘Em in the Eye. Hol. Apr. (12.)

  TOMPKINS, JULIET WILBOR. (MRS. POTTLE.) (1871– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Dope. W. H. C. Sept. (12.)
    For Charley. S. E. P. Jan. 3. (10.)
    Key House. G. H. Jan. (76.)
    Safe Harbor. Del. Dec., ’24. (6.)

  TOOHEY, JOHN PETER. (1880– .) (_See 1924._)
    Little Old Boat. Pict. R. Feb. (26.)
    New Act. S. E. P. Aug. 15. (52.)
    Nothing Half So Sweet. Chic. Trib. Sept. 13.
    On the Back Seat. Col. Sept. 12. (13.)
    Primrose Path. Pict. R. Mar. (21.)
    Red Peril. Pict. R. Jan. (8.)

  TOOKER, LEWIS FRANK. (1855– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Boys they Used to Be. Col. Jan. 10. (14.)

  TOOMER, JEAN.
    ***Easter. Lit. R. Spring. (3.)

  TORGERSON, EDWIN DIAL.
    *Letters of a Bourgeois Father to His Bolshevik Son. Secr. Jan.
        (27:43.)
    Treed! Scr. Jul. (78:80.)

  TORREY, GRACE. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Pinch of Something. Col. Apr. 4. (15.)
    Said Alleged Accident. W. H. C. Apr. (21.)
    Tragic Buskin. W. H. C. Oct., ’24. (7.)

  TRAIN, ARTHUR CHENEY. (1875– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Blind Goddess. Des. Sept. (10.)

  TRAIN, ETHEL KISSAM. (1875– .) (_See 1923._) (_H._)
    Somebody Wants Me. Des. Oct., ’24. (12.)

  TURNBULL, AGNES SLIGH. (_See 1924._)
    *False Barriers. Am. Feb. (8.)
    Jessica Revives a Faded Petunia. Am. Apr. (13.)
    “So This is Life!” Am. Aug. (51.)

  TURNBULL, ARCHIBALD DOUGLAS. (_See 1924._)
    Standing By. Hol. Nov., ’24. (11.)

  TURNER, GEORGE KIBBE. (1869– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    At the Murderer’s Ball. Ly. May 16. (5.)
    Hen on Wheels. S. E. P. Feb. 14. (24.)
    No Questions Asked. Ly. Aug. 15. (8.)
    Street of the Forgotten Men. Ly. Feb. 14. (17.)

  TUTTLE, WORTH. (_See 1924._)
    *Color. Pear. (Am.) Oct., ’24. (30.)
    Yellow Seal. Ly. Jan. 10. (20.)

  “TWAIN, MARK.” (SAMUEL LANGHORNE CLEMENS.) (1835–1910.) (_See 1921._)
        (_H._)
    ***Mrs. McWilliams and the Lightning. (_R._) Gol. July. (2:61.)
    ***Notorious Jumping Frog of Calaveras County. (_R._) Gol. Jan.
        (1:105.)


                                   U

  UPSON, WILLIAM HAZLETT. (_See 1924._)
    Buzz Saw. Col. Jul. 11. (12.)
    Charlie the Gloom Hound. S. E. P. Jun. 13. (12.)
    *Croix de Guerre. Col. Feb. 28. (11.)
    Elephant. S. E. P. Apr. 25. (20.)
    I’m in a Hurry. Col. May 2. (18.)
    I Got a Swell Job, I Got a Peach of a Girl. S. E. P. Aug. 29. (5.)
    November 11, 1918. Col. Nov. 15, ’24. (10.)
    Sun at St. Mihiel. S. E. P. May 2. (28.)


                                   V

  VAN DE WATER, FREDERICK F. (_See 1924._)
    Dope. S. E. P. Feb. 14. (5.)
    Faker. S. E. P. Apr. 11. (14.)
    Horse Marine. S. E. P. Jan. 17. (10.)
    Three Minutes of Silent Prayer. Scr. Dec., ’24. (76:615.)

  VAN DINE, WARREN L. (1902– .) (_See 1924._)
    *Prophet. I. L. M. Mar. (32.)

  VAN DOREN, CARL.
    **Boy on a Horse. Cen. Feb. (109:561.)

  VAN HISE, ALICE.
    “’Tis Better to Have Loved and Lost--.” Pict. R. Nov., ’24. (30.)

  VAN VORST, MARIE. (MRS. GAETANO GAGIATI.) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Who Follows--? Pict. R. May. (14.)

  VANCE, LOUIS JOSEPH. (1879– .) (_H._)
    Grey Flannels. McCall. Jan. (5.)
    Gulp Stream. McCall. Oct., ’24. (5.)
    White Fire. Col. Aug. 1. (5.)

  VANCE, LOUIS JOSEPH, _and_ VERNEY, FRANK E.
    Base Methods. S. E. P. Jun. 6. (16.)
    Mad Dogs and the Minnow. S. E. P. May 16. (20.)

  VENABLE, EDWARD CARRINGTON. (1884– .) (_See 1924._)
    ***Lines on the Portrait of a Lady. Scr. Jun. (77:593.)
    **Spur of the Moment. Atl. Jun. (135:808.)

  VERNEY, FRANK E. _See also_ VANCE, LOUIS JOSEPH _and_ VERNEY, FRANK E.
    **Man Between. Pict. R. Jun. (14.)

  VITEZ, MIKLOS.
    *Flunked. Am. H. Nov. 7, ’24. (808.)

  VORSE, MARY HEATON. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    **Big Fish. L. H. J. Dec., ’24. (20.)
    *Family. Col. Dec. 20, ’24. (10.)
    *First Stone. Red. Bk. Dec., ’24. (56.)
    ***Sand. Pict. R. Jul. (14.)

  VOTO, BERNARD DE. _See_ DE VOTO, BERNARD.


                                   W

  WALDMAN, MILTON. (1895– .)
    ***Home Town. L. Merc. Dec., ’24. (11:132.)

  WALKER, HELEN. (_See 1924._)
    **Forbidden Disciple. Com. Apr. 8. (1:601.)

  WALKER, ISABEL, _and_ REDINGTON, HELEN.
    Silver Shoon. Del. Jun. (10.)

  WALMSLEY, STEPHEN M.
    Reconstruction. Ev. Jan. (82.)

  WALROND, ERIC.
    Voodoo’s Revenge. Opp. Jun. (3:209.)

  WARD, FLORENCE BAIER.
    Where the Road Forked. L. H. J. Mar. (18.)

  WATER, FREDERICK F. VAN DE. _See_ VAN DE WATER, FREDERICK F.

  WATTS, CLAUDE SAMUEL. (1877– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Deviled Crabs. McC. Sept. (1:760.)
    Good Bad Actor. S. E. P. Aug. 15. (49.)

  WEEKS, RAYMOND. (1863– .) (_See 1924._)
    **On the Road to the Big Blue. Mid. Jan. 1. (11:19.)
    *Fat Women of Boone. Mid. Jan. 1. (11:1.)
    *Snakes of Boone. Mid. Jan. 1. (11:12.)
    *Thou Canst Not Say I Didn’t. Mid. Jan. 1. (11:27.)
    **Two Gentlemen from Indiany. Mid. Jan. 1. (11:23.)

  WEIMAN, RITA. (1889– .) (_See 1924._)
    *Laughing Legacy. S. E. P. Aug. 15. (5.)
    One Venetian Night. Red Bk. Dec., ’24. (27.)
    Yours Truly, Paris. Harp. B. May (102.)

  WELLES, HARRIET OGDEN DEEN. (_See 1924._)
    *Uncharted Course. Scr. Aug. (78:158.)

  WELLS, CORINNE UPDEGRAFF.
    Bobbie’s Roof. Des. Mar. (14.)

  WELLS, MERRICK.
    Sonnobeech. Strat. Dec., ’24. (3:262.)

  WELLS, WILLIAM HOWELLS. (_See 1923._)
    *Monsieur Toppy. O. R. Nov., ’24. (21.)

  WESCOTT, GLENWAY. (1901– .) (_See 1924._)
    ***This Way Out. Col. Jul. 4. (18.)

  WEST, ANN. (_See 1924._)
    Lady Disdain. Hol. Oct., ’24. (20.)
    Legacies. Hol. Jan. (11.)
    Orchids and Iron. Hol. Aug. (16.)

  WESTON, GEORGE T. (1880– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    All Dressed Up. S. E. P. Dec. 13, ’24. (10.)
    Blue Sky. S. E. P. Aug. 22. (3.)
    Cameo Brooch. S. E. P. Sept. 26. (12.)
    *Devil Among the Women. Hear. Nov., ’24. (64.)
    $86,000. Hear. Dec., ’24. (58.)
    First Choose the Girl. L. H. J. Apr. (6.)
    Girl Who Advertised. Red Bk. Dec., ’24. (78.)
    How to be Happy Though Rich. Cos. Mar. (46.)
    Just a Big-Hearted Rascal. Hear. Jan. (80.)
    Old Bird. L. H. J. Jan. (6.)
    Tweed Coat. S. E. P. Sept. 12. (8.)

  WHARTON, EDITH NEWBOLD JONES. (1862– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    ***Bewitched. Pict. R. Mar. (14.)
    ***Miss Mary Pask. Pict. R. Apr. (8.)
    ***Velvet Ear-Muffs. Red Bk. Aug. (39.)

  WHITE, ARTHUR CORNING.
    Russet Gold. Echo. Jun. (1.)

  WHITE, FREDERICK. (_See 1924._)
    He Could Catch Trout. Scr. Oct., ’24. (76:386.)
    Professor and the Pink Lady. Scr. Jul. (78:61.)

  WHITE, K. J.
    *Of Thyself, Master. Int. Arts. Jun. (1:5.)

  WHITE, NELIA GARDNER. (_See 1924._)
    Eight Years Too Late. L. H. J. Jun. (15.)
    “Flint” Miller’s Boy Comes Home. Am. Dec., ’24. (47.)
    Jen Starts All Over Again. Am. May. (62.)
    Minister Who Thought He Was a Failure. Am. Jun. (38.)
    Separation. Am. Feb. (52.)
    Jen’s Girl. Am. Mar. (44.)

  WHITE, STEWART EDWARD. (1873– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    ***Corner in Horses. (_R._) Gol. Jul. (2:20.)
    Hold-Up. S. E. P. Jan. 31. (10.)
    Milky Way. Col. Jun. 6. (11.)
    **Rawhide. (_R._) Gol. Apr. (1:581.)

  WHITLOCK, BRAND. (1869– .) (_See 1923._) (_H._)
    **Sofa. S. E. P. Apr. 18. (7.)

  WHITMAN, STEPHEN FRENCH. (1880– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    ***One of Those Nice Little Evenings. (_R._) Gol. Aug. (2:183.)
    ***That Famous Love Affair. Col. Apr. 18. (11.)

  WICKHAM, HARVEY. (_See 1916._) (_H._)
    Grilled Cupid. S. E. P. Mar. 7. (56.)

  WILBUR, HARRIETTE.
    Beebe’s Biennial. Cath. W. May. (121:172.)

  WILDER, CHARLOTTE E.
    City Bred. W. Tom. Jul. (8:203.)

  WILEY, HUGH. (1894– .) (_See 1924._)
    *Chow Joss. S. E. P. Apr. 4. (26.)
    Darker Horse. S. E. P. Jun. 27. (24.)
    *Foiled Again. Red Bk. Jun. (75.)
    Held for Rancid. S. E. P. Nov. 15, ’24. (44.)
    Jailbird of Paradise. Red Bk. Nov., ’24. (77.)
    Minted Gold. S. E. P. Mar. 7. (38.)
    Spoils of War. S. E. P. May 9. (26.)

  WILGUS, JACK
    *Consequences. W. M. Jan. (4:126.)

  WILLIAMS, BEN AMES. (1889– .) (_See 1924._)
    *Abandoned Farm. S. E. P. Feb. 14. (18.)
    *Accident. S. E. P. Mar. 28. (12.)
    *Ancient Landmark. S. E. P. Dec. 27, ’24. (3.)
    *Artist. S. E. P. Nov. 22, ’24. (13.)
    ***Finished Story. G. H. Oct., ’24. (14.)
    *Foreheads Villainous. S. E. P. Dec. 13, ’24. (12.)
    *Free Camping. S. E. P. Nov. 15, ’24. (10.)
    Little Foxes. Ev. Jun. (79.)
    *Man Who Killed the Moose. Ly. Dec. 13, ’24. (15.)
    Missing Attribute. S. E. P. Oct. 18, ’24. (8.)
    **One Fair Daughter. G. H. Nov., ’24. (26.)
    *Palsied Eld. S. E. P. Feb. 21. (20.)
    *Pod-Anger Man. S. E. P. Apr. 18. (20.)
    *Thunderstroke. S. E. P. Oct. 4, ’24. (5.)
    Windy Side of the Law. S. E. P. Feb. 28. (20.)

  WILLIAMS, JESSE LYNCH. (1871– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Actress and the Lady. Cos. Oct., ’24. (24.)

  WILLIAMS, MICHAEL. (1877– .) (_H._)
    *Coca Dope. Blue Bk. Apr. (47.)
    *False Face. Com. Dec. 3, ’24. (1:98.)

  WILLIAMS, URSULA TRAINOR.
    Will Turner’s Wife. For. Jul. (74:92.) (_H._)

  WILLIAMS, WILLIAM D. (_H._)
    Last Choice of Crusty Dick. McC. Aug. (1:568.)

  WILLIAMS, WYTHE. (1881– .)
    Splendid with Swords. S. E. P. Sept. 19. (26.)

  WILLIS, WINIFRED.
    Clothes--or the Man. Col. Dec. 20, ’24. (22.)

  WILLOUGHBY, BARRETT. (_See 1924._)
    ***Devil-Drum. Cen. Jan. (109:393.)

  WILLSIE, HONORE. _See_ MORROW, HONORE WILLSIE.

  WILSON, EDMUND.
    **Dandy Day. N. Rep. Aug. 19. (43:348.)

  WILSON, JOHN FLEMING. (1887– .) (_See 1920._) (_H._)
    *Desert. Sh. St. Oct. 10, ’24. (40.)

  WILSON, MARY BADGER.
    Personal and Private. L. H. J. Nov., ’24. (12.)

  WINSLOW, HORATIO. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Art Line. S. E. P. Aug. 29. (10.)
    Bimbo the Blood. S. E. P. Aug. 1. (8.)
    Cockatoo. S. E. P. Jul. 11. (8.)
    Confidential: Please Destroy. S. E. P. Oct. 18, ’24. (18.)
    Didos: Official Report. S. E. P. Nov. 22, ’24. (8.)
    Grudge Fight. S. E. P. Sept. 26. (18.)
    Please Excuse Me. S. E. P. Apr. 4. (10.)
    Told to the Sporting Editor. S. E. P. Nov. 1, ’24. (12.)

  WINSMORE, ROBERT S. (_See 1924._)
    Blind Spots. S. E. P. Mar. 14. (18.)
    Conover Crowd. S. E. P. Nov. 1, ’24. (14.)
    Major’s Monument. S. E. P. Jan. 3. (6.)

  WISTER, OWEN. (1860– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    ***La Tinaja Bonita. (_R._) Gol. Jun. (1:781.)
    ***Second Missouri Compromise. (_R._) Gol. Feb. (1:178.)
    ***Specimen Jones. (_R._) Gol. Jan. (1:109.)

  WITWER, HARRY CHARLES. (1890– .) (_See 1924._)
    Charlotte’s Ruse. Col. Nov. 15, ’24. (5.)
    Chin He Loved to Touch. Cos. Aug. (93.)
    5th Horseman of the Apocalypse. Cos. Feb. (59.)
    Food for Scandal. Cos. Oct., ’24. (46.)
    Hood Riding Little Red. Cos. Apr. (94.)
    Lady of Lyons, N. Y. Col. Jul. 18. (5.)
    Love at First Fight. Cos. Jan. (54.)
    Not So Big. Cos. Jim. (76.)
    Pigskin He Loved to Touch. Cos. Dec., ’24. (67.)
    Scrambled Yeggs. Col Oct. 4, ’24. (5.)
    So This is New York. Col. Aug. 8. (5.)
    Survival of the Fattest. Cos. Nov., ’24. (339.)
    Two Gentlemen of Verona, N. J. Cos. Sept. (85.)

  WOLFF, WILLIAM ALMON. (1885– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Dead Fall. Des. Dec., ’24. (12.)
    Goddess of Chance. Des. Oct., ’24. (14.)
    Little Upstart Brook. Ev. Aug. (60.)
    Rope That Wasn’t Long Enough. Ly. May 10, ’24. (37.)
    Thrift. Ly. Oct. 18, ’24. (35.)
    Town Talk. Des. Jan. (14.)
    Tremper’s Folly. Des. Nov., ’24. (14.)

  WOLFF, WILLIAM ALMON, _and_ JOHNSON, AGNES C.
    Two Left Feet. Ly. Sept. 19. (48.)

  WOOD, CLEMENT. (1888– .) (_See 1924._)
    ***Blue Circle. Int. Arts. Jun. (1:17.)
    ***Mother. Opp. Jul. (214.)
    ***Trazan. Pict. R. Apr. (10.)

  WOOD, JULIA FRANCES. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    According to Code. Chic. Trib. Aug. 30.

  WOODFORD, JACK.
    Kid’s Old Lady. Echo. Aug. (12.)
    Only Beautiful Thing Left. Echo. May. (1.)

  WOODROW, MRS. WILSON. (NANCY MANN WADDEL WOODROW.) (_See 1924._)
        (_H._)
    Heavy Sugar. Ly. Aug. 8. (17.)

  WORCESTER, LUCY.
    Two Peters. Des. Aug. (14.)

  WORTS, GEORGE FRANK. (1892– .) (_See 1923._)
    Message to the Maharajah. Col. Dec. 13, ’24. (10.)
    When the Red Star Rises. Ev. Jul. (9.)

  WYCKOFF, ELIZABETH PORTER. (_See 1923._)
    Now Consider Theresa. W. H. C. Dec., ’24. (32.)

  WYLIE, ELINOR. (_See 1924._)
    ***Gideon’s Revenge. Cen. Jan. (109:305.)


                                   Y

  YORE, CLEM.
    Mile High Monte of the Bell Bar Bell. Ev. Sept. (44.)
    Tinker and Tick. C. G. Jul. 11. (10.)

  YOUNG, EVERETT.
    Diana and the House of Hate. Del. Jul. (7.)
    Exiles. W. H. C. Jun. (7.)


                      II. BRITISH AND IRISH AUTHORS

                                   A

  ANONYMOUS
    Great Boar of Birkatheli (_R._) Liv. A. Mar. 7. (324:547.)

  “ARLEN, MICHAEL.” (DIKRAN KUYUMJIAN.) (_See 1923._)
    ***Ace of Thirteens. Cen. Oct., ’24. (108:733.)
    **Battle of Berkeley Square. Red Bk. Apr. (60.)
    **Duke of Ladies. Red Bk. Jan. (34.)
    **Hand and Flower. Red Bk. May. (46.)
    **Knife Thrower. Red Bk. Jul. (46.)
    **Legend of Isolda. Red Bk. Mar. (38.)
    **Man from America. Red Bk. Jun. (66.)
    ***One Gold Coin. Book. (N. Y.) Jan. (60:556.) Feb. (60:699.)
    *Owl on the Fountain. Harp. B. Mar. (70.)
    **Salute Mr. Lancelot. Red Bk. Dec., ’24. (42.)

  ATKEY, BERTRAM. (1880– .) (_See 1924._)
    Dimity Gay, Daddy’s Good Girl. S. E. P. Apr. 18. (3.)
    Winnie and the Shark. S. E. P. Nov. 8, ’24. (18.)

  AUMONIER, STACY. (1887– .) (_See 1924._)
    **Baby Grand. Mun. Dec., ’24. (83:428.)
    ***Dark Red Roses. Ev. Oct., ’24. (29.)
    **Juxtapositions. Pict. R. Nov., ’24. (12.)
    ***Source of Irritation. (_R._) Gol. Sept. (2:293.)

  AUSTIN, FREDERICK BRITTEN. (1885– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    **Battle Piece: New Style. S. E. P. Jul. 25. (8.)
    ***Battle Piece: Old Style. S. E. P. Jul. 18. (3.)
    Diamond Cut Diamond. Red Bk. Feb. (80.)
    Fourth Degree. Red Bk. Oct., ’24. (62.)
    Great Mallett Case. Red Bk. Jan. (78.)
    ***On the Flagship. S. E. P. Jun. 13. (10.)
    One-Eyed Moor. Red Bk. Nov., ’24. (57.)
    Paris Frock. Red Bk. Dec., ’24. (50.)
    *When the War God Walks Again. S. E. P. Jan. 17. (3.)


                                   B

  BAILY, FRANCIS EVANS. (1887– .) (_See 1924._)
    Blessed Are the Shingled. S. E. P. Aug. 1. (46.)
    Thy Neighbor’s Wife. Hear. Nov., ’24. (58.)

  BARRIE, SIR JAMES MATTHEW. (1860– .)
    ***Courting of T’nowhead’s Bell. (_R._) Gol. Mar. (1:445.)

  BENNETT, ENOCH ARNOLD. (1867– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Claribel. S. E. P. Aug. 22. (12.)
    **Perfect Husband. Cos. Jan. (60.)
    *Toreador. Col. Jan. 24. (7.)
    ***Umbrella. Col. Nov. 24, ’24. (5.)

  BENNETT, ROLF. (_See 1922._)
    ***Bird of Fortune. Adv. Jul. 30. (150.)
    ***Cask. Adv. Nov. 20, ’24. (63.)
    *Teeth of McClure. Adv. July 20. (72.)

  BENSON, EDWARD FREDERIC. (1867– .) (_See 1923._) (_H._)
    **Corstophine. Mun. Jan. (83:623.)

  BERESFORD, JOHN DAVYS. (1873– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Meeting Place. W. H. C. Feb. (12.)
    *Three Cases. W. H. C. Nov., ’24. (7.)

  BIBESCO, PRINCESS ELIZABETH. (_See 1924._)
    ***“La Peronnière Letters.” Chic. Trib. Dec. 28, ’24.

  BOTTOME, PHYLLIS. (MRS. FORBES DENNIS.) (_See 1919._) (_H._)
    ***Wonder-Child. Atl. Jan. (135:48.)

  BOWEN, ELIZABETH. (_See 1924._)
    *Parrot. Ev. Apr. (135.)

  “BOWEN, MARJORIE.” (GABRIEL MARGARET VERE CAMPBELL COSTANZO LONG.)
        (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Comfortable. Col. Mar. 14. (18.)
    *Lady Who Lived in a Dream. MacL. Oct. 15, ’24. (19.)
    Where Your Treasure Is. Chic. Trib. Apr. 5.

  BURDETT, OSBERT.
    Perfect Host. (_R._) Liv. A. Mar. 14. (324:614.)

  BURKE, THOMAS. (1887– .) (_See 1924._)
    ***Spleen. (_R._) Liv. A. Feb. 28. (324:474.)


                                   C

  CHESTERTON, GILBERT KEITH. (1874– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    ***Arrow of Heaven. Col. Jul. 25. (12.)
    ***Asylum of Adventure. MacL. Nov. 1, ’24. (27.)
    **Chief Mourner of Marne. Harp. M. May. (150:690.)
    ***Curse of the Golden Cross. Col. Jul. 11. (20.)
    ***Man with Two Beards. Harp. M. Apr. (150:595.)
    ***Mirror of Death. Harp. M. Mar. (150:394.)
    ***Oracle of the Dog. (_R._) Gol. Sept. (2:372.)
    ***Song of the Flying Fish. Harp. M. Jun. (150:82.)

  CHRISTIE, AGATHA.
    Mystery of the Spanish Shawl. Macf. Dec., ’24. (38.)

  CLIFFORD, SIR HUGH. (1866– .) (_See 1917._)
    ***Further Side of Silence. (_R._) Gol. Aug. (2:159.)
    ***Lone-Hand Raid of Kûlop Sûmbing. Gol. Apr. (1:485.)

  COLLINS, DALE. (_See 1924._)
    *God from Pennsylvania. Fron. Jun. (51.)
    **Good that is in the Worst of Us. Hear. Nov., ’24. (32.)
    *Service to Science. Sun. Jan. (25.)
    *Surprise Island. Sun. Dec., ’24. (20.)

  COLUM, PADRAIC. (1881– .) (_See 1924._)
    ***John Griggins--A Day in His Life. Com. Apr. 22, ’25. (1:657.)
    **Legend of Ys. Com. Sept. 23. (2:478.)
    **St. Martin and the Honest Man. Cen. Jun. (110:238.)
    **Servitor. Com. Sept. 30. (2:563.)

  COPPARD, ALFRED EDGAR. (1878– .) (_See 1924._)
    ***Field of Mustard. Dial. Jul. (79:47.)

  COULDREY, OSWALD.
    ***Nandi in Pound. Atl. May. (135:602.)

  COUTLER, GEOFFREY.
    ***Decoy. Tr. Oct., ’24. (2:365.)

  COULTER, JOHN W.
    **Catholic Walks. (_R._) Liv. A. Nov. 22, ’24. (323:433.)

  CUNNINGHAME GRAHAM, ROBERT BONTINE. (1852– .) (_See 1920._)
    ***Convert. (_R._) A. W. Aug.–Sept. (9.)


                                   D

  DATALLER, ROGER.
    **After-Meeting. (_R._) Liv. A. Feb. 21. (324:431.)

  DAWSON, CONINGSBY (WILLIAM). (1883– .) (_See 1922._) (_H._)
    *Don’s Garden. McCall. Mar. (11.)

  DE LA MARE, WALTER JOHN. (1873– .) (_See 1922._)
    ***Connoisseur. Yale. Jul. (14:645.)
    ***Pigtails, Ltd. Atl. Aug. (136:175.)

  DELL, ETHEL M. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Full Measure. McCall. Jun. (5.)
    Master Key. McCall. Mar. (5.)
    Unknown Quantity. McCall. Oct. ’24. (22.)

  DOUGLAS, NORMAN.
    **Queer! V. F. Jan. (46.)

  DOYLE, SIR ARTHUR CONAN. (1859– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Billy Bones. G. H. Jun. (40.)
    *Adventure of the Three Garridebs. Col. Oct. 25, ’24. (5.)
    *Adventure of the Illustrious Client. Col. Nov. 8, ’24. (5.)

  DUFFY, P. J. O’CONNOR. (_See 1924._)
    *Boy from Gorthacaurnon. Cath. W. Jul. (121:479.)
    *Colga MacCaffrey’s Inheritance. Cath. W. Jan. (120:477.)
    *Riches of the Poor Man. Cath. W. Nov., ’24. (120:203.)
    *Trenmore Jerningham. Cath. W. Mar. (120:760.)
    *Woman of the Sea. Cath. W. May. (121:208.)

  DUKES, ASHLEY.
    *Listener. (_R._) Liv. A. Oct. 11, ’24. (323:111.)

  DUNSANY, EDWARD JOHN MORETON Drax Plunkett, 18th Baron. (1878– .)
        (_See 1920._)
    ***Moral Little Tale. (_R._) Gol. Sept. (2:339.)


                                   E

  EDGINTON, MAY. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Love Reigneth Still. Pict. R. Aug. (10.)
    *This Happens Every Day. Pict. R. Feb. (12.)
    What Handsome People. S. E. P. Sept. 26. (24.)
    Why? Harp. B. Dec., ’24. (76.)

  EDWARDS, ETHEL ASHTON.
    *Clever Mr. Delavel. (_R._) Liv. A. Mar. 28. (324:708.)

  ERTZ, SUSAN. (_See 1924._)
    *Henry and the Muse. Pict. R. Aug. (15.)

  ERVINE, ST. JOHN GREET. (1883– .) (_See 1915._) (_H._)
    ***Mr. Peden Keeps His Cook. Cen. Dec., ’24. (109:195.)


                                   F

  FLETCHER, J. S. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Diamond Cut Diamond. Cos. Feb. (71.)
    Green Ink. Cos. Jan. (96.)


                                   G

  GALSWORTHY, JOHN. (1867– .) (_See 1923._) (_H._)
    ***Last Card. Red Bk. Feb. (48.)
    ***Mummy. Red Bk. Nov., ’24. (68.)
    ***Water. Red Bk. Oct., ’24. (43.)

  GEORGE, WALTER LIONEL. (1882– .) (_See 1922._)
    *Case of Olga Pennard. Ain. Dec., ’24. (129.)
    *Hand of Gladys Cockley. Pict. R. Sept. (7.)
    Last of His Line. Col. Oct. 11, ’24. (15.)
    *Test. Charm. May. (11.)
    *Wedding of Ailie Fern. Col. Nov. 22, ’24. (5.)

  GERHARDI, WILLIAM.
    ***Big Drum. Harp. M. Apr. (150:571.)

  GIBBON, PERCEVAL. (1879– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Crossed Wires. S. E. P. Aug. 29. (15.)
    **Jackass. S. E. P. Jan. 17. (16.)
    *Man of Science. S. E. P. Jun. 20. (5.)
    *Out of the Shadow. W. H. C. Sept. (9.)
    ***Second-Class Passenger. (_R._) Gol. Aug. (2:261.)

  GIBBS, SIR PHILIP. (_See 1924._)
    *Harmonious Child. Cos. Apr. (50.)
    *School of Courage. MacL. Sept. 15. (9.)
    *Shock of Success. Cos. Jan. (42.)
    *Out of the Ruins. Cos. Dec., ’24. (36.)

  GILBERT, RODNEY.
    *Brass Bowl. (_R._) Liv. A. Oct. 4, ’24. (323:49.)

  GOLDING, LOUIS. (1895– .) (_See 1924._)
    *Great Poet! Am. H. Dec. 26, ’24. (116:219.)
    *Youth Flaunts a Feather. Am. H. Apr. 10. (116:692.)

  GORDON, DOUGLAS. (_See 1924._)
    *Silent Highway. Sh. St. Jan. 10. (167.)

  GORDON, JANET L. (_See 1924._)
    “To-morrow.” Cath. W. Jan. (120:453.)

  GRAHAM, HELEN.
    *Highbrows. (_R._) Liv. A. Feb. 7. (324:331.)

  GRAHAM, ROBERT BONTINE CUNNINGHAME. _See_ CUNNINGHAME GRAHAM, ROBERT
        BONTINE.

  GRIFFIN, W.
    **Contact. (_R._) Liv. A. Nov. 8, ’24. (323:333.)

  GRIMSHAW, BEATRICE. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Coconut Pearl. Cos. Aug. (34.)
    Eyes in the Corner. Ly. Jun. 27. (8.)
    Prisoner of the Reef. Ly. May 17, ’24. (43.)
    Safe of the Shalimar. S. E. P. Jul. 11. (22.)
    Under the Shive-Dagon. Red Bk. Oct., ’24. (80.)
    Yapanee. Col. Jan. 17, ’25. (15.)


                                   H

  HAMILTON, COSMO. (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Prodigal Father. S. E. P. Nov. 15, ’24. (14.)
    Remember Lot’s Wife. S. E. P. Nov. 22, ’24. (12.)

  HARDY, THOMAS. (1840– .) (_See 1920._) (_H._)
    ***Squire Patrick’s Lady. (_R._) Gol. Feb. (1:195.)

  HICHENS, ROBERT SMYTHE. (1864– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    For the Sake of the Leading Lady. Cos. May. (20.)
    Husband Doubler. Harp. B. Nov., ’24. (72.)
    Watch-Dog. Cos. Jul. (82.)

  HINKSON, KATHARINE TYNAN. _See_ TYNAN, KATHARINE.

  HOLDSWORTH, GEOFFREY, _and_ STERN, G. B. _See_ STERN, G. B., _and_
        HOLDSWORTH, GEOFFREY.

  HORN, HOLLOWAY. (1886– .) (_See 1924._)
    Convention. Harp. B. Oct., ’24. (112.)
    Loss. Harp. B. Apr. (200.)

  HUGHES, RICHARD.
    ***Locomotive. H. C. Summer. (9.)
    ***Poor Man’s Inn. For. Feb. (73:220.)

  HUXLEY, ALDOUS LEONARD. (_See 1924._)
    ***Half Holiday. Harp. M. Sept. (151:457.)


                                   J

  “JABB.”
    Stolen Camera. (_R._) Liv. A. Jan. 3. (324:51.)

  JACOBS, WILLIAM WYMARK. (1863– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    ***Fickle Woman. Hear. Feb. (84.)
    ***Interruption. Ly. Jul. 4. (11.)
    ***Something for Nothing. Hear. Jan. (89.)

  JEPSON, EDGAR. (1864– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Chalcedony Horse. Col. Apr. 25. (12.)
    Jade Spirit Gong. S. E. P. Oct. 18, ’24. (28.)
    Mystic Fan. S. E. P. May 9. (30.)
    Peter Intervenes. McC. May. (1:85.)
    Prince Sarrazin’s Frogs. S. E. P. Sept. 12. (22.)

  JOHNSTON, SIR HARRY HAMILTON. (1858– .)
    **In the Lion’s Mouth. (_R._) Gol. Jan. (1:146.)

  JOPE-SLADE, CHRISTINE. (_See 1924._)
    Cleopatra Was a Blonde. L. H. J. Jan. (10.)
    Her Royal Highness Hoblin. L. H. J. May. (16.)
    Little Lost Church. L. H. J. Apr. (10.)


                                   K

  KAYE-SMITH, SHEILA. (_See 1924._)
    ***Working Man’s Wife. W. H. C. Mar. (12.)

  KENNEDY, MARGARET.
    *Long Week End. Cos. Sept. (36.)

  KENT, MICHAEL. (_See 1924_.)
    Missing Miss Fortescue. Hol. May. (11.)

  KIPLING, RUDYARD. (1865– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    ***Bull That Thought, Cos. Dec., ’24. (44.) MacL. Nov. 15, ’24.
        (16.)
    ***Prophet and the Country. Hear. Oct., ’24. (81.)
    ***Wish House. Hear. Nov., ’24. (88.) MacL. Oct. 15, ’24. (15.)
    ***With the Main Guard. (_R._) Gol. Jan. (1:97.)


                                   L

  “LANCASTER, G. B.” (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Sons. Hol. Jul. (18.)

  LAWRENCE, DAVID HERBERT. (1885– .) (_See 1917._) (_H._)
    ***Woman Who Rode Away. Dial. Jul. (79:1.) Aug. (79:121.)

  LOCKE, WILLIAM JOHN. (1863– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    ***Princess’s Kingdom. (_R._) Gol. Jun. (1:773.)

  LONG, GABRIEL MARGARET VERE CAMPBELL COSTANZO. _See_ “BOWEN,
        MARJORIE.”

  LOWNDES, MRS. BELLOC. (1868– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    **Day He Forgot. Macf. Dec., ’24. (25.)
    *Final Sentence. Am. May. (101.)
    *“One Little Minute.” McC. Aug. (1:525.)

  LYSTER, M.
    **Tortoise. (_R._) Liv. A. Dec. 27, ’24. (323:707).


                                   M

  MCFEE, WILLIAM. (1881– .) (_See 1924._)
    **Washout. Chic. Trib. Sept. 27.

  “MACLAREN, IAN.” (WATSON, JOHN.) (1850–1907.) (_H._)
    *Afterwards. (_R._) McC. May. (1:95.)

  MACMANUS, SEUMAS. (1870– .) (_See 1919._) (_H._)
    *Haste to the Weddin’. Com. Feb. 4. (1:344.)

  MCNEILE, MAJOR H. CYRIL. (“SAPPER.”) (1888– .) (_See 1923._)
    *Blackmail. McC. May. (1:28.)
    Ducking of Herbert Polton. McC. Aug. (1:596.)
    Man with a Scar on His Face. McC. Jun. (1:57.)

  MAUGHAM, W. SOMERSET. (1874– .) (_See 1924._)
    *Ant and the Grasshopper. Cos. Oct., ’24. (88.)
    ***Man Who Wouldn’t Hurt a Fly. Cos. Apr. (54.)
    *Most Selfish Woman I Knew. Cos. Sept. (90.)
    ***Mr. Know-All. Cos. Jan. (48.)
    *Widow’s Might. Cos. Feb. (30.)
    **Yellow Streak. Cos. Aug. (106.)

  MAXWELL, WILLIAM BABINGTON. (_See 1922._) (_H._)
    **Long Distance Train. Col. May 30. (6.)

  MERRICK, LEONARD. (1864– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Cure for Dyspepsia. Harp. B. Sept. (72.)

  METCALFE, JOHN.
    ***Mole. D. D. Jun. (7:181.)

  MEYNELL, VIOLA.
    ***Letter. (_R._) Books. Dec. 28, ’24. (8.)
    ***Ten Minutes. Cen. Apr. (109:794.)

  MILLS, ARTHUR. (1887– .) (_See 1924._)
    Hair of the Dog. Ev. May. (133.)
    *King o’ the Plain. Ev. Dec., ’24. (119.)
    Lame. Ev. Oct., ’24. (93.)
    *Their Island. Ev. Nov., ’24. (77.)

  MILNE, ALAN ALEXANDER. (1882– .) (_See 1919._)
    Miss Waterlow in Bed. W. H. C. Aug. (17.)
    Sparrow Tree Square. W. H. C. Sept. (25.)

  MONTAGUE, CHARLES EDWARD. (1867– .)
    ***All for Peace and Quiet. (_R._) Gol. Aug. (2:221.)

  MUNDY, TALBOT. (1879– .) (_See 1916._) (_H._)
    *Drop or Two of White. (_R._) Gol. Sept. (2:330.)


                                   N

  NEVINSON, HENRY WOODD. (1852– .)
    ***Catfish. (_R._) Gol. Aug. (2:255.)

  NIVEN, FREDERICK JOHN. (1878– .) (_See 1924._)
    *Conscience. Pop. Dec. 7, ’24. (165.)
    *Faith Cure. Pop. Oct. 20, ’24. (60.)
    *House on the Bluff. Pop. Aug. 7. (116.)
    *MacPherson’s Luck. Pop. Dec. 20, ’24. (171.)
    *Man to Man. Pop. Jul. 7. (143.)


                                   O

  O’FLAHERTY, LIAM.
    ***Conger Eel. Dial. Jan. (78:5.)
    Wild Goat’s Kid. Dial. Aug. (79:137.)

  OPPENHEIM, EDWARD PHILLIPS. (1866– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Astute Deal. Harp. B. Oct., ’24. (98.)
    Bamboozling of Mrs. Gascoigne. Col. Apr. 25. (5.)
    Black Virgin. Harp. B. Dec., ’24. (88.)
    Blood Money. Col. May 30. (13.)
    Cafe of Terror. Col. May 16. (7.)
    Channay the Deliverer. S. E. P. May 16. (43.)
    Christian the Concierge. Col. Jun. 27. (15.)
    Drama of the Marshes. S. E. P. May 2. (40.)
    Eric Rhodes Has His Chance. S. E. P. May 23. (30.)
    Gamble in Franks Oils. Harp. B. Nov., ’24. (68.)
    Gilbert Channay Takes the Air. S. E. P. Apr. 11. (22.)
    Great Abduction. S. E. P. May 9. (36.)
    Hidden Symbol. Col. Jun. 6. (18.)
    Last of the Virgins. Harp. B. Apr. (108.)
    Madame Seeks a Prince. Harp. B. Mar. (98.)
    Mark Levy Pays. S. E. P. Apr. 18. (34.)
    Martin Fog Persists. S. E. P. Apr. 25. (28.)
    Monte Carlo Pays a Gas Bill. Col. Jun. 20. (11.)
    Mrs. Block Contributes. Col. May 9. (7.)
    Numbers of Death. Col. May 2. (12.)
    Royal Game. Col. May 23. (13.)
    Salvation of Mr. Morton. Col. Jun. 13. (50.)
    Small Tragedy of Mr. Tidd. Chic. Trib. Sept. 6.
    Worthy Quittance. Harp. B. Feb. (90.)
    Wrung Heart. Harp. B. Jan. (80.)


                                   P

  PANTER-DOWNES, MOLLIE.
    Misfit Wife. Cos. Mar. (87.)
    Morning Like This. Cos. Nov., ’24. (45.)

  PERTWEE, ROLAND. (_See 1924._)
    All’s Fair. S. E. P. Sept. 26. (8.)
    Finger Dipped In Gold. S. E. P. Oct. 4, ’24. (14.)
    Life Policy. Ev. May. (9.)
    Salvation of Boobs. S. E. P. Nov. 15, ’24. (22.)
    **Vanishing Point. L. H. J. Apr. (14.)
    Wonderful Man. S. E. P. Sept. 19. (24.)

  POWYS, LLEWELLYN. (_See 1924._)
    *Trapper. Cen. Aug. (110:415.)

  POWYS, THEODORE FRANCIS. (_See 1924._)
    ***Painted Wagon. Dial. Feb. (78:91.)

  PRYCE, RICHARD. (1864– .) (_See 1923._)
    *Storm. W. H. C. Jul. (7.)


                                   Q

  QUIRK, VIOLET.
    Sleeping Secrets. Pict. R. Apr. (28.)


                                   R

  RENIERS, PERCEVAL.
    Tropics Do Queer Things. Ind. May 16. (114:557.)

  RICHARDSON, ANTHONY.
    ***Old Mossy Face. For. Apr. (73:513.)


                                   S

  SABATINI, RAFAEL. (1875– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    **Forbidden Fruit. G. H. Sept. (30.)

  “SAPPER.” _See_ MCNEILE, MAJOR H. CYRIL.

  SOMERVILLE, EDITH Œ., _and_ “ROSS, MARTIN.” (VIOLET MARTIN.)
    **Philippa’s Fox-Hunt. (_R._) Gol. Sept. (2:317.)

  STACPOOLE, HENRY DE VERE. (1865– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Story of Kanoa and the Jinni. Pop. Nov. 7, ’24. (92.)

  STERN, G. B. (MRS. GEOFFREY LISLE HOLDSWORTH.) (1890– .) (_See 1922._)
    *Barcarolle. W. H. C. Jan. (22.)
    *Empty Tables. W. H. C. Nov., ’24. (9.)
    *Goblet of the Carradore. W. H. C. May. (7.)

  STERN, G. B., _and_ HOLDSWORTH, GEOFFREY.
    Brocade Shoes. Harp. B. Jan. (64.)

  STEVENSON, ROBERT LOUIS. (1850–1894.) (_See 1915._) (_H._)
    ***Lodging for the Night. (_R._) Gol. May. (1:661.)
    ***Sire de Malétroit’s Door. (_R._) Gol. Mar. (1:348.)

  STUART, ELEANOR. (_H._)
    *Perfect Servant. Scr. Jul. (78:18.)

  SWINNERTON, FRANK ARTHUR. (1884– .) (_See 1918._)
    *Celebrity. S. E. P. Apr. 4. (24.)
    Guest. Chic. Trib. Jun. 14.
    *Marriage Arranged. Col. May 9. (12.)
    *Miss Jedburys. L. H. J. Oct., ’24. (14.)


                                   T

  TERRILL, G. APPLEBY. (_See 1924._)
    *Child of the Song-Fo River. MacL. Mar. 1. (13.)
    *Don’t Talk to Me of Princesses. Hol. Aug. (11.)
    *In St. Martin’s Summer-Land. L. H. J. May. (18.)

  TOWNEND, W. (_See 1923._) (_H._)
    *Bolshevik. S. E. P. Jul. 11. (16.)

  TRAILL, PETER.
    **His Wife’s Portrait. Macf. Oct., ’24.

  TYNAN, KATHARINE. (KATHARINE TYNAN HINKSON.) (_See 1924._)
    *Shelling of the Church. Cath. W. Jul. (121:447.)
    *Shrine of the Prince-Bishop. Cath. W. Nov., ’24. (120:159.)


                                   V

  VANE, SUTTON.
    **Fog. Smart Set. Jul., ’24. (39.)


                                   W

  WALLACE, EDGAR. (1875– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Little Dragon of Jade. S. E. P. May 16. (22.)

  WALPOLE, HUGH SEYMOUR. (1884– .) (_See 1924._)
    *Girl Who was Herself. Hear. Jan. (76.)
    **Miss Finchley’s Hour. G. H. Dec., ’24. (14.)
    ***Old Elizabeth. G. H. Nov., ’24. (46.)

  WATSON, JOHN. _See_ “MACLAREN, IAN.”

  WELLS, CATHARINE. (MRS. H. G. WELLS.) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    *Dragon Fly. Tr. Nov., ’24. (2:511.)

  WELLS, HERBERT GEORGE. (1866– .) (_H._)
    ***Story of the Late Mr. Elvesham. (_R._) Ev. Sept. (102.)

  WETJEN, ALBERT RICHARD. (1900– .) (_See 1924 under American Authors._)
    *Admiral Jibbetts. Col. Mar. 14. (13.)
    *Glory. Col. Sept. 26. (18.)
    Heart of MacLoughlin. Ev. May. (55.)
    *Mr. Atkins. Col. Mar. 28. (5.)
    *North of the World. Sun. Mar. (22.)
    **On the Coast Run. Col. Dec. 6, ’24. (10.)
    *’Ome Builder. Col. Feb. 21. (10.)
    *Road of Adventure. Sh. St. Oct. 10, ’24. (118.)
    *Time. Col. Jan. 24. (14.)
    *Tradition. Col. Apr. 18. (7.)

  WHITECHURCH, VICTOR L. (_H._)
    *Adventure of Captain Ivan Koravitch. (_R._) Gol. May. (1:641.)
    *In the House of the Mandarin. (_R._) Liv. A. Nov. 1, ’24.
        (323:292.)

  WILDRIDGE, OSWALD.
    **Cotton Lord. Chic. Trib. Jul. 5.

  WILLIAMS, I. A.
    **Man Who Stole the Pelican. (_R._)
    Liv. A. Dec. 6, ’24. (323:548.)

  WILLIAMS, MARGERY. (MRS. FRANCESCO BIANCO.) (_See 1924._)
    *Nightingale Copse. H. C. Summer. (25.)
    White Flower. Ev. Nov., ’24. (172.)

  WILLIAMSON, CHARLES NORRIS. (1859–?) _and_ ALICE MURIEL LIVINGSTON.
        (1869– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    House of the Sun. Chic. Trib. Jan. 25.

  WILLIAMSON, HENRY. (_See 1924._)
    ***No Eel for Nog. Col. Apr. 11. (18.)

  WODEHOUSE, PELHAM GRENVILLE. (1881– .) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
    Awful Gladness of the Mater. S. E. P. Mar. 21. (10.)
    Clustering Round Young Bingo. S. E. P. Feb. 21. (10.)
    Custody of the Pumpkin. S. E. P. Nov. 29, ’24. (5.)
    High Stakes. S. E. P. Sept. 19. (8.)
    Honeysuckle Cottage. S. E. P. Jan. 24. (8.)
    Jane Gets Off the Fairway. S. E. P. Oct. 25, ’24. (5.)
    Purification of Rodney Spelvin. S. E. P. Aug. 22. (6.)
    Something Squishy. S. E. P. Dec. 20, ’24. (6.)
    Without the Option. S. E. P. Jun. 27. (8.)

  WOOLF, VIRGINIA. (_See 1923._)
    ***Miss Ormerod. Dial. Dec., ’24. (77:466.)

  WRYNN, ANTHONY.
    Equinox. Dial. Sept. (79:203.)

  WYLIE, IDA ALENA ROSS. (1885– .) (_See 1924._)
    Exiles in Casserole. S. E. P. Feb. 21. (8.)
    Mrs. Margrave Finds Her Children. G. H. Dec., ’24. (70.)


                                   Y

  YATES, DORNFORD. (_See 1924._)
    Childish Things. S. E. P. Jun. 27. (43.)
    Leading Strings. S. E. P. Nov. 22, ’24. (18.)


                            III. Translations

                                   A

  ACREMANT, ALBERT. (_See 1924._) (_French._)
    Assumed Name. N. Y. Trib. Apr. 12.
    Sword Dancer of Montmartre. N. Y. Trib. Feb. 15.

  ALARCON, PEDRO ANTONIO DE. (_Spanish._)
    ***Captain Veneno’s Proposal of Marriage. (_R._) Gol. Jan. (1:13.)
    ***Prophecy. (_R._) Gol. Jun. (1:812.)

  ANDREYEV, LEONID NIKOLAEVICH. (1871–1919.) (_See 1917._) (_H._)
        (_Russian._)
    ***Giant. Mod. Q. Fall, ’24. (2:119.)

  ANNUNZIO, GABRIELE D’. (_Italian._) _See_ D’ANNUNZIO, GABRIELE.

  ANONYMOUS. (_German._)
    *Mysterious Temple. (_R._) Liv. A. Mar. 21. (324:665.)

  ARENNES, J. AD. (_French._)
    Purple Sweater. N. Y. Trib. Dec. 21, ’24.


                                   B

  BACHELIN, HENRI. (_See 1924._) (_French._)
    End of the Picture Auction. N. Y. Trib. Jun. 7.

  BALZAC, HONORE DE. (1799–1850.) (_See 1921._) (_H._) (_French._)
    ***El Verdugo. (_R._) Gol. Apr. (1:556.)

  BARILLIER, BERTHE CARIANNE LE. _See_ “BERTHEROY, JEAN.”

  BARJAC, CLAUDE. (_See 1924._) (_French._)
    At the Season’s End. N. Y. Trib. Oct. 19, ’24.

  “BERTHEROY, JEAN.” (BERTHE CARIANNE LE BARILLIER.) (1860– .) (_See
        1924._) (_French._)
    *Leaning Tower. N. Y. Trib. Oct. 5, ’24.
    Love Laughs Last and Best. N. Y. Trib. Jan. 18.
    Wing Shot and Wounded Siren. N. Y. Trib. Nov. 3, ’24.

  BINET-VALMER. (1875– .) (_See 1924._) (_French._)
    For Those Who Come After Us. N. Y. Trib. Jul. 26.

  BIZET, RENE. (1887– .) (_See 1924._) (_French._)
    Stepsister and the Piano. N. Y. Trib. Jan. 25.

  BLAISE, GILBERT. (_French._)
    *Convenient Beneditti. N. Y. Trib. Sept. 27.

  BLASCO, IBANEZ, VICENTE. (1867– .) (_See 1924._) (_Spanish._)
    Condemned. Ly. May 24, ’24. (27.)

  BOUTET, FREDERIC. (_See 1924._) (_French._)
    *Cesar Balbois. Ly. Nov. 8, ’24. (27.)
    Imposter. Ly. Nov. 1, ’24. (59.)
    Little Cabin in the Clearing. N. Y. Trib. May 10.
    Man of Unrecognized Genius. N. Y. Trib. Aug. 16.
    Preliminary to a Marriage for Money. N. Y. Trib. Oct. 26, ’24.
    *Soldier Duval, Alone, Unaided. N. Y. Trib. Mar. 1.
    Tragedy of Appearances. N. Y. Trib. Jul. 5.
    *With the Coming of the Avenger. N. Y. Trib. Jan. 4.

  BUCHHOLTZ, JOHANNES. (_Danish._)
    *Rhenish. Wave. Oct., ’24. (2:71.)


                                   C

  CALDERON, SERAFIN ESTEBANEZ. (_Spanish._)
    ***Andalusian Duel. (_R._) Gol. Apr. (1:513.)

  CALSON, PEDRO DE NOVO. (_Spanish._)
    ***Terror of the Government. (_R._) Gol. May. (1:718.)

  CAPUANA, LUIGI. (_Italian._)
    **Kiss. (_R._) Gol. Feb. (1:204.)

  CASTELLO, LUIS. (_Argentinian._)
    *Juan Varela’s Vote. (_R._) Liv. A. Sept. 19. (326:630.)

  CERIO, EDWIN. (_Italian._)
    *Danse Macabre. D. D. Jun. (7:163.)

  CHEKHOV, ANTON PAVLOVICH. (1860–1904.) (_See 1924._) (_H._)
        (_Russian._)
    ***Bet. (_R._) Gol. May. (1:651.)
    ***Slanderer. (_R._) Gol. Mar. (1:437.)

  CHIRIKOV, EUGENE. (_See 1917._) (_H._) (_Russian._)
    *Brave Sparrow. Strat. Nov., ’24. (3:143.)

  CLEMENCEAU, GEORGES EUGENE ADRIEN. (1841– .) (_See 1923._) (_French._)
    How I Became Long-Sighted. (_R._) Liv. A. Sept. 5. (326:499.)

  “COLETTE.” (MME. HENRI DE JOUVENAL.) (_French._)
    *Blind Alley. V. F. Apr. (62.)
    *Distinguished Housebreaker. V. F. Feb. (43.)
    *Habit. V. F. Jul. (59.)
    *Hand. V. F. Aug. (51.)
    Monsieur Maurice. V. F. Sept. (59.)
    *One Evening. V. F. Jan. (43.)
    *Other Woman. V. F. May. (61.)
    *Portrait. V. F. Dec., ’24. (47.)
    *Those By Whom We Are Judged. V. F. Mar. (45.)
    *Woman Behind the Mask. V. F. Nov., ’24. (55.)

  COMERT, MARGUERITE. (_See 1924._) (_French._)
    “You in Spite of Everything.” N. Y. Trib. Jul. 12.


                                   D

  D’ANNUNZIO, GABRIELE (RAPAGNETTA). (1864– .) (_See 1920._)
        (_Italian._)
    ***Bells. I. A. Jun. (1:25.)
    ***Turlendana Returns. (_R._) Gol. Sept. (2:325.)

  DAUDET, ALPHONSE. (1840–1897.) (_See 1921._) (_H._) (_French._)
    ***Siege of Berlin. (_R._) Gol. Apr. (1:515.)
    ***Sous-Prefet Afield. (_R._) Gol. May. (1:737.)

  DEKOBRA, MAURICE. (1885– .) (_French._)
    *Strategy in a Country Courthouse. N. Y. Trib. May 17.
    Theft of the Pearl Necklace. N. Y. Trib. Mar. 22.

  DESCAVES, PIERRE. (_French._)
    That Persistent Old Woman. N. Y. Trib. June 28.

  DOSTOEVSKY, FYODOR MIKHAILOVICH. (1822–1881.) (_See 1921._) (_H._)
        (_Russian._)
    ***Christmas Story. Dial. Sept. (79:179.)

  DUMAS, ALEXANDRE, _the elder_. (1806–1870.) (_French._)
    ***Solange. (_R._) Gol. Jan. (1:135.)


                                   E

  EBERHARDT, ISABELLE. (_French._)
    *One Night in Africa. Opp. Apr. (105.)
    *Tears of the Almond Tree. Opp. Jan. (3:11.)

  EDES, AIME MARC. (_French._)
    Death by the Bite of the Lion. N. Y. Trib. Jan. 11.


                                   F

  FERNANDEZ GUARDIA, LEON. (_Costa Rican._)
    **No. 13,013. I. A. Oct., ’24. (8:39.)

  FOGAZZARO, ANTONIO. (1842–19--.) (_H._) (_Italian._)
    ***Because of a Rose-Leaf. (_R._) G. B. May. (1:681.)

  FONHUS, MIKKJEL. (_See 1923._) (_Norwegian._)
    *Nocturnal Visitors. Scan. Jan. (13:40.)

  “FRANCE, ANATOLE.” (JACQUES ANATOLE THIBAULT.) (1844–1925.) (_See
        1921._) (_H._) (_French._)
    ***Our Lady’s Juggler. (_R._) G. B. May. (1:766.)
    ***Procurator of Judea. (_R._) Gol. Aug. (2:176.)
    ***Putois. (_R._) Gol. Feb. (1:189.)


                                   G

  GABORIAU, EMILE. (1835–1873.) (_See 1921._) (_French._)
    **Accursed House. (_R._) Gol. Mar. (1:332.)

  GARNIER, HUGUETTE. (_See 1924._) (_French._)
    Penny Ring. N. Y. Trib. Mar. 8.

  GEIJERSTAM, GUSTAV A. F. (_Swedish._)
    **Secret of the Forest. Scan. Oct., ’24. (12:612.)

  GEVEL, CLAUDE. (_French._)
    Message of the Wall. N. Y. Trib. Aug. 23.

  GOGOL, NIKOLAI VASILIEVICH. (1809–1852.) (_See 1921._) (_H._)
        (_Russian._)
    ***Diary of a Madman. Mod. Q. Winter, ’24. (2:177.)

  GOMEZ JAIME, ALFREDO. (_Colombian._)
    **I Come for a Soul. I. A. Oct., ’24. (8:55.)

  “GORKY, MAXIM.” (ALEXEI MAXIMOVITCH PYESHKOV.) (1868 or 1869– .)
        (_See 1924._) (_H._) (_Russian._)
    ***Gipsy: Makar Chudra. (_R._) Gol. May. (1:721.)
    ***Hermit. Col. May 16. (16.)
    ***Story of a Novel. S. W. Apr. (83.)
    ***Strange Murderer. Dial. Oct., ’24. (77:291.)

  GOURMONT, REMY DE. (1858–1915.) (_French._)
    Evening Chat. Guar. Mar. (1:157.)
    Faun. Guar. Mar. (1:160.)


                                   H

  HEIDENSTAMM, VERNER VON. (_Swedish._)
    ***Clean White Shirt. (_R._) Gol. Sept. (2:363.)
    ***French Mons. (_R._) Gol. Jan. (1:5.)
    ***Mazeppa and His Ambassador. (_R._) Gol. Feb. (1:200.)
    ***Queen of the Marauders. (_R._) Gol. Mar. (1:430.)
    ***Sigrid the Haughty and Her Wooers. Scan. Dec., ’24. (12:722.)

  HERFORT, PAUL. (_French._)
    Four Pebbles. N. Y. Trib. Feb. 1.


                                   I

  IBANEZ, VICENTE BLASCO. (_Spanish._) _See_ BLASCO IBANEZ, VINCENTE.

  IRETSKI. (_Russian._)
    *Elusive Treasure. (_R._) Liv. A. Sept. 12. (326:590.)


                                   J

  JACOBSEN, JENS PETER. (1847–1885.) (_See 1919._) (_Danish._)
    ***Two Worlds. D. D. Jan.–Feb. (7:86.)


                                   K

  KUPRIN, ALEXANDER. (1870– .) (_See 1924._) (_Russian._)
    ***Winter Night’s Tale. (_R._) Liv. A. Jan. 24. (324:213.)


                                   L

  “LEBLOND, MARIUS-ARY.” (_French._)
    **Little Brother of the Underbrush. Harp. M. Oct., ’24. (149:634.)

  LECHE, MIA. (_Swedish._)
    *Chiffons. (_R._) Liv. A. Oct. 25, ’24. (323:208.)

  LEMCHE, GYRITHE. (_Danish._)
    **For Dear Life. Scan. Aug. (13:467.)

  LEVEL, MAURICE. (_See 1920._) (_French._)
    **Debt Collector. (_R._) Gol. Feb. (1:221.)


                                   M

  MARTORELLO, NOE S. (_Argentinian._)
    ***Pedro. I. A. Apr. (8:323.)

  MAUPASSANT, HENRI-RENE-ALBERT-GUY DE. (1850–1893.) (_See 1922._)
        (_H._) (_French._)
    ***Experiment in Love. (_R._) Gol. Mar. (1:439.)
    ***Night in Spring. (_R._) Gol. May. (1:678.)
    ***Sundays of a Parisian. (_R._) Gol. Jan. (1:124.) Feb. (1:294.)
    **’Toine. (_R._) Gol. Sept. (2:379.)

  MERIMEE, PROSPER. (1803–1870.) (_H._) (_French._)
    ***Carmen. (_R._) Ev. Jun. (97.)
    ***Djoumane. (_R._) Gol. Jun. (1:863.)
    ***Game of Backgammon. (_R._) Gol. Feb. (1:282.)
    ***Lokis. (_R._) Gol. Mar. (1:361.)
    ***Tamango. (_R._) Gol. Aug. (2:245.)

  METZGER, MADELEINE. (_French._)
    *Hamond and the Horned Viper. N. Y. Trib. Aug. 30.
    *Manor-House Wedding. (_R._) Liv. A. Dec. 13, ’24. (323:608.)

  MUSSET, ALFRED DE. (1810–1857.) (_French._)
    ***Story of a White Blackbird. (_R._) Gol. Apr. (1:499.)
    ***White Blackbird’s Story. (_R._) Pear. (Am.) Feb. (37.)


                                   N

  NAZOR, VLADIMIR. (_Croatian._)
    **Angelo, the Stonecutter. (_R._) Liv. A. Nov. 29, ’24. (323:483.)

  NIETO, ALEJANDRO. (_Argentinian._)
    ***Love’s Labor Lost. (_R._) Gol. June. (1:881.)


                                   P

  PAYRO, ROBERTO J. (_Argentine._)
    *Integrity. (_R._) Liv. A. Oct. 18, ’24. (323:154.)

  PEREZ, J. L. (_Yiddish._)
    *Eighth Division Hell. Guar. Nov., ’24. (6.)
    *Miracle on the Sea. J. T. Sept. 18. (38.)

  PINSKI, DAVID. (1872– .) (_See 1919._) (_Yiddish._)
    **Zalman the Contractor. Men. J. Jun. (11:253.)

  PIRANDELLO, LUIGI. (1867– .) (_See 1924._) (_Italian._)
    ***Mere Formality. (_R._) Gol. Sept. (2:399.)
    ***Shoes at the Door. (_R._) Liv. A. Nov. 15, ’24. (323:371.)

  POURCEL, GEORGES. (_See 1924._) (_French._)
    Face on the Medallion. N. Y. Trib. Apr. 5.
    Protector of the Household. N. Y. Trib. Dec. 28, ’24.

  PUSHKIN, ALEXANDER SERGEYEVICH. (1799–1837.) (_See 1921._) (_H._)
        (_Russian._)
    ***Pistol Shot. (_R._) Gol. Jun. (1:871.)

  PYESHKOV, ALEXEI MAXIMOVITCH. (_Russian._) _See_ “GORKY, MAXIM.”


                                   R

  RAMEAU, JEAN. (_See 1923._) (_French._)
    Claudette’s Admirer. N. Y. Trib. Nov. 30, ’24.
    *Pardon Direct from Heaven. N. Y. Trib. Jun. 21.

  RASMUSSEN, KNUD. (_Danish._)
    *Exploits of Pukitsulik. (_R._) Liv. A. Apr. 11. (325:117.)

  REGIS, ROGER. (_See 1923._) (_H._) (_French._)
    *My Neighbour Invisible. N. Y. Trib. Nov. 9, ’24.

  REISBACH, JEAN. (_French._)
    Play of Destiny. N. Y. Trib. Nov. 16, ’24.

  RENARD, MAURICE. (_French._)
    *When April Returned Too Late. N. Y. Trib. Aug. 2.

  REUZE, ANDRE. (_French._)
    *Adventure in the Fog. N. Y. Trib. Apr. 26.

  RICCI, CORRADO. (_Italian._)
    *Cross of the Mother. Leonardo. 1925. (18.)

  RODRIGUEZ-ALCALA, TERESA LAMAS CARISIMO DE. (_Paraguay._)
    **Py-Chay. I. A. Feb. (8:236.)

  “ROSNY, J. H., _aine_.” (J. _and_ H. BOEX.) (1856–.) (_See 1924._)
        (_French._)
    Man-Eater Outwitted. N. Y. Trib. May 24.
    Monsieur Labouze’s Adventure. N. Y. Trib. Sept. 6.
    Mystery of the Licking Stone. N. Y. Trib. Jul. 19.
    Opportune Burglary. N. Y. Trib. Dec. 14, ’24.
    Pivoine, the Unappreciated One. N. Y. Trib. Nov. 23, ’24.
    *That Good Cigar. N. Y. Trib. Mar. 29.

  RUMANIA, MARIE, QUEEN OF. (_Rumanian._)
    *Lulaloo. G. H. Mar. (20.)

  RUNG, OTTO. (_Danish.)_
    **Light-Fingered Philanthropist. (_R._) Liv. A. Sept. 5. (326:533.)


                                   S

  SACHER-MASOCH, LEOPOLD DE. (_German._)
    *Haman and Esther. J. T. Mar. 6. (22.)

  SANDY, ISABELLE. (_See 1924._) (_French._)
    Brass Bedstead. N. Y. Trib. Feb. 22.
    *Dancing Jack of the Belfry. N. Y. Trib. Jun. 14.
    **Legend of the Ash Tree. N. Y. Trib. Dec. 7, ’24.

  SCHNITZLER, ARTHUR. (1862– .) (_See 1924._) (_Austrian._)
    Lieutenant Gerstl. Dial. Aug. (79:89.)

  SCOTT, GABRIEL. (_Norwegian._)
    **How Our Lord and St. Peter Came to Visit the Earth. Scan. Dec.,
        ’24. (12:743.)

  SEGREDA, LUIS DOBLES. (_Costa Rican._)
    *Saddlebags. (_R._) Liv. A. Dec. 20, ’24. (323:669.)

  SHKURKIN, P. (_Russian._)
    *Temple of Dutiful Widowhood. (_R._) Liv. A. Feb. 14. (324:382.)

  SILLEN, MARTA AF. (_Swedish._)
    ***Two Sibyls. Scan. Sept. (13:546.)

  SOLARI, EMILE. (_French._)
    Patriarch Rabbit. N. Y. Trib. Oct. 12, ’24.

  SONOLET, LOUIS. (_French._)
    Household a Little Too Parisian. N. Y. Trib. Feb. 8.

  SWEDEN, PRINCE WILLIAM OF. (_Swedish._)
    *Jungle Love. Cos. Jul. (76.)
    *Phantom Lover. Cos. May. (26.)


                                   T

  TENEVILLE, ALBERT DE. (_French._)
    Experiment in Hypnotism. N. Y. Trib. Apr. 19.

  THIBAULT, JACQUES ANATOLE. _See_ “FRANCE, ANATOLE.”

  TOLSTOY, LYOF NIKOLAIEVICH, COUNT. (1828–1910.) (_See 1921._) (_H._)
        (_Russian._)
    ***Too Dear. (_R._) Gol. Jan. (1:55.)


                                   U

  UGARTE, MANUEL. (_See 1924._) (_Argentine._)
    **Totota. (_R._) Liv. A. Apr. 4. (325:57.)


                                   V

  VELIKANOVICH, ISO. (_Yugo-Slav._)
    **Old Fogies’ Club. (_R._) Liv. A. Jan. 31. (324:260.)


                                   Z

  ZETTERSTROM, HASSE. (_Swedish._)
    Anna Clara’s Dance. (_R._) Liv. A. Jan. 10. (324:121.)




Transcriber’s Note:

Jargon, dialect, obsolete and alternative spellings were left
unchanged. Thirteen misspelled words in the short stories were
corrected. In the various appendices, spelling of names of people and
magazines were corrected.

Words and phrases in italics are surrounded by underscores, _like
this_. Footnotes were renumbered sequentially and were moved to the end
of each chapter. Obvious printing errors, such as reversed or partially
printed letters and punctuation, were corrected. Missing letters were
added. Final stops missing at the end of sentences and abbreviations
were added.




*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BEST SHORT STORIES OF 1925 ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

